The Project Gutenberg eBook of Colombine a fantasy
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Colombine a fantasy
        and other verses

Author: Reginald Arkell

Illustrator: Frederick Carter

Release date: June 19, 2025 [eBook #76341]

Language: English

Original publication: London: Benn and Cronin, Ltd, 1911

Credits: Carol Brown, Charlene Taylor and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***

Transcriber’s Note:

Words and phrases in italics are surrounded by underscores, _like
this_.

“ro” was changed to “to” ... desire to run ...




  COLOMBINE

  A FANTASY

  AND OTHER VERSES




  _LONDON_
  BENN AND CRONIN, LTD.
  CRAVEN HOUSE, KINGSWAY, W.C.
  1911




       _Copyright: Entered at Stationers’ Hall, December 1911.
                  Acting Rights strictly Reserved._




[Illustration: COLOMBINE.]




[Illustration:

  COLOMBINE
  A FANTASY

  BY REGINALD ARKELL

  WITH SOME DRAWINGS
  BY FREDERICK CARTER.]




[Illustration]




                            AUTHOR’S NOTE

“COLOMBINE” was first performed at Clavier Hall, Hanover Square, W.,
on Thursday, 7th December 1911, with the following cast:

    Dan’l (an old man)         MR. B. BUTLER.
    Nathan’l (a boy)           MR. A. E. FILMER.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Harlequin                  MR. REGINALD BACH.
    Pierrot                    MR. MARK HANNAM.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Colombine                  MISS ETHEL EVANS.

    The play was produced by MR. A. E. FILMER.


                                SCENE

  A ROMAN CAMP on the summit of Cissbury Beacon in the South Downs.
     A fairy ring occupies the foreground. All round are beech trees.
     The time is evening.




[Illustration]




                               PROLOGUE


    There are circles of green upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the Pharisees dance--so they say;
    Revelling merrily round it until
    The dawn over Ditchling is gray.
    And travellers lost upon Cissbury Hill--
    (Pixy-led folk who stray)
    Seated on toad-stools, with fairy folk sup,
    _But here, in Haymarket, the roadway is up_.

    There are circles of beech upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the leaves of a lifetime decay;
    Hiding the memories, lingering still,
    Of Rome’s indisputable sway.
    And under the beech-leaves of Cissbury Hill,
    Throbs the heart of the downland alway.
    While dreaming of chieftains and warriors in woad,
    _You’re lighting your pipe in the Charing Cross Road_.




[Illustration]




                              COLOMBINE


     _An old man and a boy are seen talking; both are labourers.
                 The old man, who is seated, speaks_:

      DAN’L. Well, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. There’s little use in stopping here much longer.

      NATHAN’L. Not as I can see.

      DAN’L. Like my old eyes, the sun don’t grow no stronger.

      NATHAN’L. And I wants my tea.

      DAN’L. Do ee, lad?

      NATHAN’L. Ah, main bad.

      DAN’L. Which means ’tis time to go, I reckons.

      NATHAN’L. That’s a proposition as I seconds.

      DAN’L. Come on then, let’s be moving. Tip us yer daddle.

      NATHAN’L. All of a sudden you be in a mortal caddle.
    I wants to hear the finish of that yarn
    As you was spinning down at Tranter’s Barn.
    A peck of troubles it was all about.
    I wants to know how everything turned out.

      DAN’L. You wants your tea, that’s what you wants, my son.

      NATHAN’L. There’s time enough for tea when you be done.

      DAN’L. Well, though ’tis little enough I read,
    I sid in a story-book years ago,
    (Though mind, Nathan’l, there beant no need
    To be letting on as I told ee so)
    That all the troubles as worrits a man
    Was locked in a box when the world began.

    And there no doubt they’d ha’ bid till now,
    If the dummel soul as had got the key,
    Hadn’t got mixed up with a maid somehow
    And gone and handed it over to she.
    And what do ee fancy the maiden did?
    Darn me, Nathan’l, ur lifted the lid.

[Illustration]

    And all they troubles come trooping out,
    Like hens from a chicken-run might have done.
    For the maiden fancied without a doubt,
    They’d go back in the evening like, one by one.
    But time’s got to settle a few more clocks,
    Afore they troubles goes back to their box.

    Straight, Nathan’l, ’tis near enough
    To make a methody parson swear.
    And every time as I reads such stuff,
    I goes so red as yon moon up there.
    To think of the trouble ur brought on we--
    I reckon I owes my old gal to she.

      NATHAN’L. Is it true, do ee think, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, mebbe not, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee think, Dan’l--she let out the lot?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe not.

      NATHAN’L. Sounds like a fairy story to me.

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe, mebbe.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee believe in fairies, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Can’t be sure as I do, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, I don’t anyway, and that’s a fact.

                          _Enter_ COLOMBINE.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l, be I dreaming or be I cracked?

      NATHAN’L. My goodness, Dan’l, I do believe as she’s a fairy....

      DAN’L. Here, come into the shadow of these trees,
    And give that clacking tongue of yourn a rest.

      NATHAN’L. Oh, this be more wonderful than all the things I ever
          guessed.

      DAN’L. And it means _summat_ that you _may_ depend.

      NATHAN’L. See, where she walks, the grass don’t even bend
    Beneath her feet. She be a fairy, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. I wish you’d hold your clacking tongue, Nathan’l.

                      [COLOMBINE, _hearing a noise, pauses to listen_.

      COLOMBINE. Who’s there? The daylight fades. I cannot see.

      DAN’L. You go.

      NATHAN’L.     No, you.

      DAN’L.                So please you, Miss, ’tis we.

      COLOMBINE. Good evening, Sirs.

      DAN’L.                Our best respects to ee.
    A goodish evening to be sure, but getting dark and cold.
    Time gals like you was safe abed, if I might make so bold.

      COLOMBINE. Old man, the night has but begun.

      DAN’L. The day be done.

      COLOMBINE. The moon has scarcely risen yet.

      DAN’L. The sun have set.

      COLOMBINE. The sun his wandering footsteps stays to greet the crescent moon.
    The nightjar and the nightingale will both be singing soon.

      DAN’L. Us don’t set much store by nightingales in these parts,
            and as for nightjars! Oh lor, us shoots they.
          Give I a linnet now,
          A-sitting on a bough;
          As sings his message to the sun,
          And goes to sleep when day be done,
          Respectable like!

      NATHAN’L. [_Coming forward._]
          Queer things,
          These here rings
          You sees in the grass
          When you pass.
          They say ’tis where Pharisees dances at night!
          Be that right?

      COLOMBINE. Quite right; yet once the circle that you see,
    Saw war and tumult.

      DAN’L.           Lawks-a-mussey me!

      COLOMBINE. The Roman legions camped on yonder brow,
    And built the road you stand on.

      NATHAN’L.                     Did they now!

      COLOMBINE. The sun would sink out yonder in the west,
    And shine upon their helmets.

      DAN’L.                      Well I’m blest!

      COLOMBINE. The very spot where Julius Caesar sat,
    Lies just behind those beeches.

      NATHAN’L.                    Think of that!

      COLOMBINE. In yonder barrow treasures rare lie hid.
    Dig deep to find them.

      DAN’L.               Well I never did!

      NATHAN’L. But when did all this
                Happen, Miss?
                How many years ago,
                I’d like to know?

      COLOMBINE. Roughly two thousand, on this very spot.

      DAN’L. Lor! What a memory you must have got.

      COLOMBINE. [_To_ NATHAN’L.] But tell me please;
    Beneath these trees,
    What travellers come, and whither bound?
    Do still these ancient heights resound
    With martial music and the tramp of men?

      NATHAN’L. Us gets a hurdy-gurdy now and then,
    And once a clown on stilts went through the wood;
    And oh! he could catch pennies, that he could.

      COLOMBINE. But in what fashion do you pass your days?

      NATHAN’L. I kill the time in various sorts of ways.
    Scaring the rooks as settles on the corn;
    Helping the shepherd when the lambs be born.
    Talking to Dan’l about these here rings,
    And wondering about a power of things.
    As don’t concern nobody, I suppose.
    But then, you must do summat, goodness knows.

      COLOMBINE. Of course. ’Tis lonely here without a doubt.
    What are the things you’re wondering about
    To-day?

[Illustration]

      NATHAN’L. Such things as surely never was.
    Such things as surely no one ever does.
    And yet, of nothing, for they moves so fast,
    You finds as you’ve forgotten them at last.
    Just like a dream they passes and be gone.
    Just like a dream they passes....

      COLOMBINE.                      Yes, go on.

      NATHAN’L. Just like a dream, for though I thinks a lot,
    Before they’re rightly thought they’re clean forgot.
    Though somehow, now I sits and talks to you,
    I keeps remembering things I never knew.
    Just like as though somebody slammed a door,
    When you was going where you’d been before;
    Leaving you standing on the further side,
    Wondering at what was happening inside.
    Whether the folk you knew was there or not;
    Whether you really knew, and had forgot;
    Whether you’d been there once when you was small,
    Or whether you was never there at all.
    ’Tis plaguey awkerd, wondering, that it be.
    And now I must be off, I wants my tea.                    [_Exit._

      COLOMBINE. Good-bye. And think sometimes of me.

                           [_Rousing herself from the brown study into
                             which this revelation has thrown her, and
                             addressing_ DAN’L.

    Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. [_Startled._] Eh?

      COLOMBINE. Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. It all depends. Why?

      COLOMBINE. There’s going to be a fight.

      DAN’L. When? Where?

      COLOMBINE. Very soon.
             By the light of the moon.
             On the very stroke of nine.
             All for love of Colombine.

      DAN’L. Shall I fetch a policeman?

      COLOMBINE. A policeman! Dear me, no.

      DAN’L. Who’s going to fight.

      COLOMBINE. Don’t you know?
                             Harlequin and Pierrot.

      DAN’L. Never heard of they.

      COLOMBINE. Won’t it be fun?

      DAN’L. Good fun
                      For the one as gets killed.

      COLOMBINE. But they won’t kill each other. They never do. They’re
    _most_ dependable.

      DAN’L. Have um fought before?

      COLOMBINE. Of course. Hundreds of times.

      DAN’L. Silly young chaps.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. They’re not silly. They’re fighting for me. Don’t you
    understand?

      DAN’L. I fought about a girl once. But only once. It was a long
    time ago.

      COLOMBINE. You’re not romantic. Romance would die if it wasn’t
    for fighting. Romance _is_ fighting.

      DAN’L. Then I’ve had quite enough romance to please me.

      COLOMBINE. All properly constituted love affairs should include
    a fight. Love without fighting is insipid.

      DAN’L. _You_ don’t have to do the fighting. Which of ’em loves
    you the most?

      COLOMBINE. Why, Pierrot, of course.

      DAN’L. Then why don’t you marry him?

      COLOMBINE. And disappoint Harlequin? I couldn’t do that.

      DAN’L. When are you going to decide?

      COLOMBINE. I don’t know. [_On her fingers._] This year, next
    year, some time, never. To-night perhaps.

      DAN’L. One day they’ll get tired of fighting. What then?

      COLOMBINE. Never!

      DAN’L. You’re sure of that?

      COLOMBINE. Oh, yes. Quite sure.

      DAN’L. One of them may get killed.

      COLOMBINE. They wouldn’t be so careless.

      DAN’L. What should you do if one of ’em got killed by accident?

      COLOMBINE. I should be very angry. But you’re very horrid to
    suggest such things. Why don’t you go away?

      DAN’L. Good-bye.

      COLOMBINE. No, stay.

      DAN’L. Well, I’m fond of a fight, I must say.

      COLOMBINE. Hush! They are coming. Quick, behind this tree.

      DAN’L. Anywhere in the background’s good enough for me.

      COLOMBINE. A fight, a fight! And all for love of me.

                    [_The orchestra plays quietly the Soldiers’ Chorus
                        and snatches of other martial refrains. The
                        two watchers betray tense excitement._
                        HARLEQUIN _and_ PIERROT _enter arm in arm.
                        Any differences they may have had are evidently
                        settled._ COLOMBINE _looks on in astonishment_.

[Illustration]

      HARLEQUIN. Mind you, as girls go, Colombine’s one of the best.

      PIERROT. Ah yes.

      HARLEQUIN. But nothing to fight about.

      PIERROT. [_Without conviction._] No.

      HARLEQUIN. And fighting’s going out of fashion. There’s no doubt
    about that.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. The whole trend of modern thought is opposed to it.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. None of the best people do it.

      PIERROT. I suppose not.

      HARLEQUIN. And one must be in the movement.

      PIERROT. Of course.

      HARLEQUIN. Arbitration’s the thing nowadays.

      PIERROT. What’s that?

      HARLEQUIN. Why, you each talk until you’re out of breath, and
    the one with most breath wins.

      PIERROT. [_Taking a deep breath._] That seems a good idea.

      HARLEQUIN. It is.

      PIERROT. But what will Colombine say if we don’t fight? She loves
    to watch us fight.

      HARLEQUIN. My dear chap, we must be firm. Adopt your point of
    view, and stick to it in the face of all opposition.

      COLOMBINE. [_Advancing._] Aren’t you going to fight?

      PIERROT. [_Kindly._] Not to-night.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! Why not?

      HARLEQUIN. Well, we’ve got
                 Other fish to fry,
                 That’s why.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! do fight!

      PIERROT. Not to-night.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, my dear girl, do listen to reason. You will admit,
    I suppose, that the most elementary point about a duel is to spit
    your opponent through the gizzard.

      COLOMBINE. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. Well, I haven’t got a gizzard, and what’s the use of
    trying to spit a man’s gizzard, if he hasn’t got a gizzard to spit?
    You must be reasonable.

      COLOMBINE. How do you know you haven’t got a gizzard?

      HARLEQUIN. We don’t know for certain, we assume.

      PIERROT. You’ve only to look at him to see there isn’t room.

      COLOMBINE. But why the gizzard? What does it matter _where_ you
    spit him so long as you do spit him?

      HARLEQUIN. For heaven’s sake, my dear girl, don’t preach such
    revolutionary doctrines. There is a certain etiquette to be
    observed, even in a battle.

      COLOMBINE. [_After a pause._] But it’s quite simple. You spit
    Pierrot. He’s got a gizzard, I suppose.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. Pierrot consulted a phrenologist....

      PIERROT. Soothsayer!

      HARLEQUIN. Sorry--soothsayer, who said he was born to be hung....

      PIERROT. Hanged!

      HARLEQUIN. Hanged, and so of course, he doesn’t want to run the
    risk of disappointing him.

      COLOMBINE. Very considerate, I’m sure.
    I think you’re absolutely _horrid_, there.               [_Cries._

      HARLEQUIN. [_To_ PIERROT.] Don’t waver, both together.

      HARLEQUIN and PIERROT. We don’t care
          Tuppence what you think or say,
          We talked the matter over, here to-day;
          And arbitration is the only way.

      COLOMBINE. You’re frightened.

      HARLEQUIN. Don’t be silly. Frightened! Me!

      COLOMBINE. Well, who’s your arbitrator going to be?

      HARLEQUIN. [_Taken aback._] Why yes, we must have someone, I
        suppose.
    But who’s to do it?

      PIERROT.          Goodness only knows!
    There’s not a single person within call.

    COLOMBINE. [_Clapping her hands._] Hurrah! You’ll have to fight,
      then, after all.

                       [_There is a pause, during which_ PIERROT _and_
                       HARLEQUIN _look at each other in dismay_.
                       COLOMBINE _on the other hand claps her
                       hands and pirouettes round the stage. Then_
                       HARLEQUIN _sees_ DAN’L _and drags him forward
                       at the same time speaking in asides_.

      HARLEQUIN. What’s your name?

      DAN’L. Much the same
            As it’s always bin,
            Week out, week in,
            This seventy year and more.

      HARLEQUIN. Good! We want you to arbitrate.
    You’re the very man.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey. I’ll do it if I can.

      HARLEQUIN. There’s much gold.
               Wealth untold!
               If you only do
               As I tell you to.

      DAN’L. Fire away!

      HARLEQUIN. Until to-day, Pierrot and I have been in the habit of
    engaging in mortal combat for the hand of Colombine. Owing to the
    fact that up to the present neither has had the decency to get
    killed, and as a result of the wave of anti-militarism that has
    swept over the country, we have decided to fall back on arbitration.
    And you are the arbitrator. You understand?

      DAN’L. No!

      HARLEQUIN. Then you’re very thick.

      DAN’L. You speaks too quick
    And the way you keeps hopping about makes me fair mazed.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. One of us is to marry
    Colombine, and you’ve to decide which it’s to be.
    Do you see?

      DAN’L. No.

      HARLEQUIN. But it’s quite simple.

      DAN’L. Maybe. But how do I know which it’s to be?

      HARLEQUIN. I’ll let you into a secret. It’s me!

      DAN’L. Oh! And if I goes and sez ’tis you,
    What’s yon chap in the white trousers going to do?

      HARLEQUIN. Never mind him. He’s a fool.

      DAN’L. It seems it don’t much matter what I say;
    I’m bound to upset one of ye either way.
    Oh! very well.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Pierrot! Gather round.

                        [_They sit in a semicircle_; COLOMBINE _and_
                          DAN’L _in the centre_.

      DAN’L. I shall catch my death of cold, sitting on this damp
    ground.

                        [_There is silence, each waiting for the other
                          to speak._

      COLOMBINE. You don’t seem very anxious, either of you.

      DAN’L. Who goes first?

      HARLEQUIN. If I don’t say something, and quickly, I shall burst.

      DAN’L. Then you’d best get started. [_Aside._] How long will it take?

      HARLEQUIN. Until it’s ended.

      DAN’L. Cut it short for goodness’ sake.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Let me take you away from these lonely hills.
    Into the heart of the world where lies the Land of Yesterday. There
    are stored all the happy hours that you have known. You shall live
    them all over again, Colombine--every one. I will lead you by secret
    paths, through the dim woods of yesternight until we stand together
    in the sunlight of the days that have been. Walking backward through
    the years, we will collect those dear lost delights, of which only
    the memory remains. From all that has gone before, it shall be yours
    to pick and choose, and no To-morrow shall throw its ominous shade
    before. The past shall deliver up its treasures to your hand; regrets
    shall be ended, and happiness shall be sure. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. No, Harlequin. The road to your Land of Yesterday is
    longer than you know, and there is no going back. Let us still take
    from the past our memories and our dreams, but do not ask for more,
    lest even these be denied.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: THE GATEWAY OF HAPPINESS]

      HARLEQUIN. As you will. Then it is to the future that we must
    turn. Colombine, far from here, set in a desert of hot sand, is a
    crystal, so large, that all the giants of Africa could not stir
    it the thickness of a hair. Peering into its depths, you may read
    your future to the end of time. A day, a week, a year, shall be no
    barrier to the vision of the mind. You may read all the riddles of
    the universe, and there will remain nothing that you do not know. You
    shall see your face as it will be when twice twenty harvest moons
    have waned, and fifty summer suns have set. And I, alone, can point
    you the way. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. You promise much, Harlequin. It may well be that in some
    spot remote from the haunts of men, the Mirror of Fate yet lies hid.
    And you may find it. Who knows! But this, at least, is certain; the
    path will be difficult and the journey long. Would you not tire by
    the way, Harlequin? I think you would. [_Pause._] And, it is not in
    distant deserts I would seek. In the woods of home, hearts may thrill
    to the eloquent silences of the night. [HARLEQUIN _rises_.] All the
    secrets of the world might be ours, did we but care to learn the
    simple language of the nightingale. Across the moonlight, the shadows
    of the branches trace unforgettable things. Great secrets tremble on
    the lips of the leaves, and mortals grope vainly in the daylight for
    things seen most plainly in the dark.

      DAN’L. [_Coughing to draw attention to himself._]
    I’ve allus noticed, in whatever parts I med ha’ bin,
    A maid in love have allus got a fairish yarn to spin.
    And in whatever parts I’ve bin, I’ve allus noticed too,
    The foolish lads do take it all for gospel, that um do.
    But though I’ve kept good notice in whatever parts I was,
    I’ve never heard a maid to spin a yarn like this un does.
    Ur be a marvel, that ur be; I hope as ur won’t try
    When ur’s tired of you two fellows here, to spin no yarns to I;
    For fools be mostly biggest fools when um be old and grey.
    And if I went along o’ she, what _ud_ my missus say.
    Next man?

      COLOMBINE. Come, Pierrot!

      PIERROT. [_With an effort._] Colombine!

      COLOMBINE. Yes, Pierrot.

      HARLEQUIN. Go on!

      DAN’L. Let’s hear what you’ve got to say, young fellow.

      PIERROT. There is nothing to say.

      COLOMBINE. Nothing to say!

      PIERROT. Save that I love you, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. And is that so small a thing, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. But I have nothing to offer you, nothing.

      COLOMBINE. [_Softly._] Save yourself.

      HARLEQUIN. I have always said that Pierrot was master of sounding
    silences. The sweetest singer of unsung songs, his eloquent nothings
    go shrieking through the void. He scorns to desecrate the virgin
    purity of his foolscap with the written word. What love is that which
    dare not tell its love? Come, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. See, Harlequin, here is a beech nut. You shake it, yet
    there is no sound. Is it full? Is it empty?

      HARLEQUIN. Who can say?

      DAN’L. Likewise, young Nathan’l he picks up a match-box last week,
    and throws it away because there was no sound when he rattles en
    [_To_ HARLEQUIN.] And what do you think?

      HARLEQUIN. I couldn’t say.

      DAN’L. It was so full all the time as not to rattle at all.

      HARLEQUIN. [_Scornfully._] Matches! ye gods! Let’s talk of cucumbers,
    Or shame the glory of this summer night
    With tales of warming-pans.
    Has no one here a button-hook,
    With which to probe the vast unsounded deeps
    [_To_ DAN’L.] Of thy poor addled brain.
    It yet may be,
    In some uncharted corner of the void
    That passes for thy mind,
    We find a collar-stud.
    Farewell!                                                 [_Exit._

      DAN’L. Well, he won’t come back again, that I will be bound,
    And as I be catching my death of cold, sitting on this damp ground,
    I’d best be moving. [_Rises._] Ugh! Good-night to ee.

      PIERROT. Good-night!

      COLOMBINE. [_Aside to_ DAN’L.] And, Mr. Arbitrator, if you see
    Your friend Nathan’l, say that Pierrot
    Owes more to him than he will ever know. [_Exit_ DAN’L.

      COLOMBINE. They have gone!

      PIERROT. Ah!

      COLOMBINE. And the night draws on.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      COLOMBINE. You are sad. Why are you sad, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. I cannot tell.

      COLOMBINE. And you are cold. Is it the night air?

      PIERROT. The wind-swept wold
    Is a street of gold,
    So my lady be walking there.

      COLOMBINE. Yet you are sad. See, they have gone and will not
    come again.

      PIERROT. So love may vanish too,
    And of his chain no link remain
    To tell the way he flew.

      COLOMBINE. Love, as the skylark, soars into that Heaven where’t
    fain would be.

      PIERROT. And singing still, returns. Time was when you, with
    Harlequin, would revel till the cold grey dawn came in.

      COLOMBINE. Light loves sometime were pleasant, but to-night the
    face of love seems changed. No more will stray this wandering heart
    of mine.

      PIERROT. Are you not sorry, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. Sorry for what, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. For loss of Harlequin.

      COLOMBINE. Harlequin is very clever but he talks of what he does
    not know, and promises what is not his to give. Cleverness is not
    everything, Pierrot. The mind is like a garden full of flowers, but
        The heart is a little house,
        With windows facing southerly;
        By which a pathway winds.
        And there, behind the blinds,
        We sit and wait,
        Watching, waiting for what?
        We know not.

    The garden is a pleasant place in summer, but when it is winter, we
    seek the fireside of the little house.

      PIERROT. Yet you are fond of gardens and pretty flowers, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. What flowers grow
          In your garden, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. My garden is full of the flowers,
          My mother planted for me;
          Curious, old-world flowers,
          Thyme, lavender, rosemary.
          Planted in days gone by.
          And, though no gardener I,
          As the shadows fall, I tend them all;
          Watering, pruning there.
          Am I happy in my lot?
          I know not.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. And there is the little house, Pierrot.

      PIERROT. Ah, yes there is the little house.
          Do you remember when
          You peeped through the pane, and then
          Went on your way again?
          Out of my sight, although,
          I beckoned you as you passed,
          And sat at my window mournfully.
          But you came again at last.
          And, seeing you come, I said;
          “The flowers in my garden are dead,
          So will she have no more of me.”

    COLOMBINE. I am knocking at the door, Pierrot.
          Knocking and waiting there,
          For the sound of a step on the stair.
          Will you open to me, Pierrot?

                                [PIERROT’S _answer may be taken in the
                                  affirmative. As they sit together, it
                                  grows dark._

[Illustration]

      PIERROT. [_Rising._] Come dear, and let us go,
    Together, hand in hand,
    Into that sun-lit land,
    Where life and love are things inseparable.
    Where, beneath cloudless skies,
    The happy are the wise,
    And none reprove the glory of a love they may not understand.

                                                     [_Exit together._
                          [_It becomes quite dark_: DAN’L _and an_ OLD
                            MAN _pass slowly across the stage, carrying
                            lanterns, and peering cautiously into the
                            blackness of the night_.

      THE OLD MAN. You was dreaming, Dan’l. That’s about the size of it.

      DAN’L. And I tells ee I wur as wide awake as you be. Us had been
    sitting over-long by the clump, and all of a sudden I looks up and
    sees a fairy. “Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l,” I sez, “be I dreaming or
    be I cracked?”

                              [_They pass off, and the curtain falls._


                                FINIS

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                             OTHER VERSES




                            THE MARIONETTE


        Man is merely a marionette
          On invisible wires suspended.
        And it’s just as well he shouldn’t forget
            That Fate the showman is in the wings,
            Working the business and pulling the strings
        Till his turn is over and ended.

        Man is merely a figure on strings,
          By the glare of the footlights blinded.
        And the wonderful way he dances and sings
            Is not unlikely to fill his mind
            With a great contempt for the Power behind,
        Till suddenly he’s reminded.

        Man is the cream of an idle jest,
          A smile on the face of sorrow.
        A sad peculiar figure at best;
            Willing to sacrifice every day,
            Breaking his heart in the hope of play
        On a problematical morrow.




                          A LETTER FROM HOME


        I’ve a letter from home to-day;
        A letter from home to say
        That they’re cutting the trees in the Priory Wood,
        That lambing is over and crops are good.
        Quite the usual thing, be it understood,
        Is my letter from home, to-day.

        I’ve a letter from home, to-day;
        A letter from far away,
        Bidding me ever to bear in mind
        The dear old friends I have left behind.
        But I’m not of the quickly forgetting kind,
        Dear letter from home, to-day!

        In my letter from home, to-day;
        Is a postscript, just to say
        “No doubt you’ll be very much grieved to hear
        That the girl who stayed at the Grange last year,
        Is dead, and was yesterday buried here.”
        And the world has ended, to-day.




                           THE EXPLANATION


                How do I know I love you?
                Why, because
                When you’re away, d’ye see,
                I kind o’ wanders lonesome like
                An’ frets,
                ’Cause you’re not there with me.
                An’ when I meet you by the stile
                At night,
                And not a soul to see,
                I scarce durst speak to you because
                You’re you, an’ I’m just me.




                              MEMORANDA


                In your Book of Memory,
                Set aside no page for me.
                Do not write our friendship there,
                But, if you’ve the time to spare,
                Scribble just this hurried line:
                “He was once a friend of mine.”

                Blot it very carefully,
                Turn the page that none may see.
                Life goes singing down the way
                Different ballads every day.
                Other pages open fair,
                Set new tales of friendship there.

                And the day will come maybe,
                When that hurried line of me;
                Seen by chance a moment’s space,
                Will recall a vanished face,
                And a memory sweeter than
                Many written pages can.




                      LOVE, LAUGHTER, AND AFTER


            The ruinous cottage, the broken latch;
            The cold stone floor and the dripping thatch.
            The ripe red lips of the girl who stands
            Holding her lover’s hands.

            The gay Casino, the fancy ball;
            The twinkling lights of the crowded hall.
            The cool sweet air of the terrace dim,
            Love and laughter and--him.

            The pitiful pageant that follows soon;
            The music hall and the cheap saloon.
            The sad procession, the coffee stall.
            The river that ends it all.




                             TH’ COORTIN’


                ’Tis just about a wik ago,
                  Or mebbe two, or theresabout,
                As I axed Kate why ur an’ Joe
                  Was seed together waalking out;
                Whenas, fur nigh upon a year,
                ’Twur I as had been coortin’ ur.

                “Why, laws-a-mussey, Bill,” ur sez,
                  “Fur certain sure ye must allow
                Us two caan’t alluz spend our days
                  The same as us be doin’ now.
                Ye’d better wed wi’ one ye doan’t
                Than waalk wi’ one ye do, as woan’t.”

                I cudden zackly understand
                  What ’twur as she was drivin’ at,
                Until I cotched ur by the hand
                  And took a peep ’erneath ur hat.
                Wur what I see surprised I so,
                  I gi’ed ur kiss, an’ whispered low:
                “Ye’d better wed the feller who
                Has alluz bin in luv wi’ you.”
                And that’s just what ur means to do.




                              AGREEMENT

                    Oyez! Oyez! Behold we state
                    The rules of this our Syndicate.


              Let it be granted first of all,
              That you are not so young and small
              As foolish people would suppose,
              From your long hair and shorter clothes.

              Item the second, please agree
              To just the opposite in me.
              For would the wisest man alive
              Imagine I was twenty-five?

              This done, folk cannot make a fuss,
              Or say that we’re preposterous.
              For you become, as all may see,
              A chaperone in charge of me.

              Thirdly, this reservation’s made,
              The Syndicate’s too old and staid
              To ride (though you’ll object no doubt)
              In swinging boat and roundabout.

              Fourthly, the world’s a dear old place,
              So always keep a smiling face.
              It suits you best, and as to that,
              So does pink chiffon in your hat.

              Lastly, lest envious folk combine
              To wreck your Syndicate, and mine,
              My autograph is here affixed,
              Written in blood and water mixed.

       _P.S._ It may not look like blood to you
              But recollect my blood is blue.




                             THE BURYIN’


                The mists be on the river bed,
                The roses all be gone;
                And here be I, about to die,
                Wi’ harvest coming on.
                Dear Lord, I’ve trapsed some weary miles,
                I’ll be main glad to rest awhiles.

                The folk’ll soon be in the fields,
                A-getting in the grain.
                For most of those, the time I’ve chose
                Be awkerd in the main.
                Though not so bad, ’tis sure, for they
                As be a-working by the day.

                September be a better month
                For all the carter men;
                And when I die don’t signify,
                So let I bide till then.
                The wagons’ll be standing by,
                And there’ll be time to bury I.




                          A ZONG TO ZING-OH!


            When the zun beyond the Beacon be a-zettin’
            And everything’s as quiet as can be,
            By the gate to varmur’s meddy,
            That old gate zo vurm and zteddy,
            You be pretty zure uv vindin’ Jim and me.

            When the mists along the valley be uprisin’
            And the nightingale’s a-zingin’ in the tree;
            When the peewits be a-zquawkin’
            Uz don’t waste no time a-talkin’
            Time’s a vasty zight too short sez Jim an’ me

            With the honeyzuckle zcent zo thick as treacle,
            And the chestnut blossoms droppin’ onto we;
            As us zets zo close together,
            Why zometimes I wonders whether
            Jim ull zet that close in Paradise to me.

            When the clocks down in the village be a-strikin’
            And darkness comes a-creepin’ up the lea,
            Then, though us be zeldom ready,
            Us must leave old varmur’s meddy,
            Or the volk ull all be wonderin’ where us be.




                                 SONG


            Long ago,
            (How long ago I really don’t know;)
            A kingfisher lived in a valley of green,
            The finest kingfisher that ever was seen--
            In that little green valley I know.

            Silent and slow
            All in a row, buttercups grow.
            One day the kingfisher selected his queen,
            And the bride wore a costume of purple and green
            ’Neath the willows that stand in a row.

            Heigho!
            (As the years go, still the streams flow)
            The whole of this summer they haven’t been seen,
            And a wood-pecker reigns in that valley serene.
            Where they’ve gone to I really don’t know.




                              PHILOSOPHY


                When I was young, in days gone by,
                I smoked Wild Woodbines on the sly.
                They made me ill, but what of that?
                ’Twas nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                If I had shirked that pallid brow
                I couldn’t smoke Havanas now.

                The only girl I ever kissed,
                Both found and left an optimist.
                She jilted me, but even that
                Was nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                I’ve such a cozy little den,
                And know a lot of married men.

                And now, although I’m getting stout,
                And though my hair is falling out,
                And people call me old and fat,
                There’s nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                Although I am a perfect fright,
                I don’t look bad by candle light.




                               FORFEITS


                You fail to catch the trencher spun
                And, later, when the game is done,
                The lady who collects the fees
                Demands a forfeit, if you please.
                You find a penny, grimed and black,
                And hope that you may get it back.

                You sit in speechless misery,
                And wonder what your fate will be,
                Until, within that giggling ring,
                You have to claim the wretched thing;
                Then sally forth upon your quest,
                To kiss the one you love the best.

                You don’t appreciate the fun,
                But curb a wild desire to run;
                Then seek a matron staid and stout,
                And drag the willing victim out;
                Because, of course, it wouldn’t do
                To kiss the girl you wanted to.




                             THE REVIVAL


            Take me away, for I will see no more;
            It was but yesterday I saw the play before,
            The day on which my dear and I were wed--
            Your mother, child--your mother who is dead.
            Why did you bring me here to see a play
            Which she and I saw only yesterday?




                         A PATRON OF THE ARTS


                    I knew a lady once I did,
                    Who lived away at Pontypridd;
                    She liked my verses very much,
                    And said I had the lyric touch.

                    She used to ask me round to lunch,
                    And say I ought to edit “Punch,”
                    As Owen S. and Francis B.,
                    Were amateurs compared to me.

                    Last week I met her in a batch
                    Of lunatics at Colney Hatch,
                    And heard she always spoke of me
                    As far surpassing Calverley.




                              CRITICISM


                A simple poet on a time,
                Resolved to write a simple rhyme.
                His verse was pleasing to the ear;
                He also made his meaning clear.

                The critics glanced at it, and said
                Such rubbish they had never read.
                A point on which they did agree,
                With touching unanimity.

                The simple poet took his lay,
                And turned it round the other way.
                Shuffled the sentences about,
                And took a dozen commas out.

                The critics took the volume, and
                Read, marked--and failed to understand.
                Then fell upon their stomachs flat,
                This prodigy to marvel at.




                           TREASON AND PLOT


                When I am very, very rich,
                  And very famous, too,
                I’ll take a cab to Regent’s Park,
                  And walk into the Zoo
                With quite a consequential air,
                For I shall be the richest there.

                And in a lordly way I’ll take
                  A shilling from my purse,
                And buy the biggest rattle-snake
                  To carry home to Nurse,
                And, as she’s very short of breath,
                Perhaps ’twill frighten her to death.




                        THE POPPY AND THE POET


                Like poppies in the golden corn,
                  The poet’s race is run;
                Each strives alike to gain the ear;
                  The poppy from the sun
                Borrows more radiance than gold--
                A poet’s much the same, I’m told.

                But still these differences appear
                  When everything is said;
                The poet’s leaves, I greatly fear,
                  Are very seldom read.
                Poppies but borrow from the sun--
                A poet will from anyone.




                              EL DORADO


                He sought it through the golden isles
                Of Once Upon a Time.
                In fabled fields of Might Have Been
                He heard its distant chime.
                He saw, mid Dreamland’s mystic glades,
                Its turrets from afar;
                And found it in the valley, where
                The deepest shadows are.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


The Project Gutenberg eBook of Colombine a fantasy
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Colombine a fantasy
        and other verses

Author: Reginald Arkell

Illustrator: Frederick Carter

Release date: June 19, 2025 [eBook #76341]

Language: English

Original publication: London: Benn and Cronin, Ltd, 1911

Credits: Carol Brown, Charlene Taylor and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***

Transcriber’s Note:

Words and phrases in italics are surrounded by underscores, _like
this_.

“ro” was changed to “to” ... desire to run ...




  COLOMBINE

  A FANTASY

  AND OTHER VERSES




  _LONDON_
  BENN AND CRONIN, LTD.
  CRAVEN HOUSE, KINGSWAY, W.C.
  1911




       _Copyright: Entered at Stationers’ Hall, December 1911.
                  Acting Rights strictly Reserved._




[Illustration: COLOMBINE.]




[Illustration:

  COLOMBINE
  A FANTASY

  BY REGINALD ARKELL

  WITH SOME DRAWINGS
  BY FREDERICK CARTER.]




[Illustration]




                            AUTHOR’S NOTE

“COLOMBINE” was first performed at Clavier Hall, Hanover Square, W.,
on Thursday, 7th December 1911, with the following cast:

    Dan’l (an old man)         MR. B. BUTLER.
    Nathan’l (a boy)           MR. A. E. FILMER.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Harlequin                  MR. REGINALD BACH.
    Pierrot                    MR. MARK HANNAM.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Colombine                  MISS ETHEL EVANS.

    The play was produced by MR. A. E. FILMER.


                                SCENE

  A ROMAN CAMP on the summit of Cissbury Beacon in the South Downs.
     A fairy ring occupies the foreground. All round are beech trees.
     The time is evening.




[Illustration]




                               PROLOGUE


    There are circles of green upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the Pharisees dance--so they say;
    Revelling merrily round it until
    The dawn over Ditchling is gray.
    And travellers lost upon Cissbury Hill--
    (Pixy-led folk who stray)
    Seated on toad-stools, with fairy folk sup,
    _But here, in Haymarket, the roadway is up_.

    There are circles of beech upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the leaves of a lifetime decay;
    Hiding the memories, lingering still,
    Of Rome’s indisputable sway.
    And under the beech-leaves of Cissbury Hill,
    Throbs the heart of the downland alway.
    While dreaming of chieftains and warriors in woad,
    _You’re lighting your pipe in the Charing Cross Road_.




[Illustration]




                              COLOMBINE


     _An old man and a boy are seen talking; both are labourers.
                 The old man, who is seated, speaks_:

      DAN’L. Well, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. There’s little use in stopping here much longer.

      NATHAN’L. Not as I can see.

      DAN’L. Like my old eyes, the sun don’t grow no stronger.

      NATHAN’L. And I wants my tea.

      DAN’L. Do ee, lad?

      NATHAN’L. Ah, main bad.

      DAN’L. Which means ’tis time to go, I reckons.

      NATHAN’L. That’s a proposition as I seconds.

      DAN’L. Come on then, let’s be moving. Tip us yer daddle.

      NATHAN’L. All of a sudden you be in a mortal caddle.
    I wants to hear the finish of that yarn
    As you was spinning down at Tranter’s Barn.
    A peck of troubles it was all about.
    I wants to know how everything turned out.

      DAN’L. You wants your tea, that’s what you wants, my son.

      NATHAN’L. There’s time enough for tea when you be done.

      DAN’L. Well, though ’tis little enough I read,
    I sid in a story-book years ago,
    (Though mind, Nathan’l, there beant no need
    To be letting on as I told ee so)
    That all the troubles as worrits a man
    Was locked in a box when the world began.

    And there no doubt they’d ha’ bid till now,
    If the dummel soul as had got the key,
    Hadn’t got mixed up with a maid somehow
    And gone and handed it over to she.
    And what do ee fancy the maiden did?
    Darn me, Nathan’l, ur lifted the lid.

[Illustration]

    And all they troubles come trooping out,
    Like hens from a chicken-run might have done.
    For the maiden fancied without a doubt,
    They’d go back in the evening like, one by one.
    But time’s got to settle a few more clocks,
    Afore they troubles goes back to their box.

    Straight, Nathan’l, ’tis near enough
    To make a methody parson swear.
    And every time as I reads such stuff,
    I goes so red as yon moon up there.
    To think of the trouble ur brought on we--
    I reckon I owes my old gal to she.

      NATHAN’L. Is it true, do ee think, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, mebbe not, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee think, Dan’l--she let out the lot?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe not.

      NATHAN’L. Sounds like a fairy story to me.

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe, mebbe.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee believe in fairies, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Can’t be sure as I do, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, I don’t anyway, and that’s a fact.

                          _Enter_ COLOMBINE.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l, be I dreaming or be I cracked?

      NATHAN’L. My goodness, Dan’l, I do believe as she’s a fairy....

      DAN’L. Here, come into the shadow of these trees,
    And give that clacking tongue of yourn a rest.

      NATHAN’L. Oh, this be more wonderful than all the things I ever
          guessed.

      DAN’L. And it means _summat_ that you _may_ depend.

      NATHAN’L. See, where she walks, the grass don’t even bend
    Beneath her feet. She be a fairy, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. I wish you’d hold your clacking tongue, Nathan’l.

                      [COLOMBINE, _hearing a noise, pauses to listen_.

      COLOMBINE. Who’s there? The daylight fades. I cannot see.

      DAN’L. You go.

      NATHAN’L.     No, you.

      DAN’L.                So please you, Miss, ’tis we.

      COLOMBINE. Good evening, Sirs.

      DAN’L.                Our best respects to ee.
    A goodish evening to be sure, but getting dark and cold.
    Time gals like you was safe abed, if I might make so bold.

      COLOMBINE. Old man, the night has but begun.

      DAN’L. The day be done.

      COLOMBINE. The moon has scarcely risen yet.

      DAN’L. The sun have set.

      COLOMBINE. The sun his wandering footsteps stays to greet the crescent moon.
    The nightjar and the nightingale will both be singing soon.

      DAN’L. Us don’t set much store by nightingales in these parts,
            and as for nightjars! Oh lor, us shoots they.
          Give I a linnet now,
          A-sitting on a bough;
          As sings his message to the sun,
          And goes to sleep when day be done,
          Respectable like!

      NATHAN’L. [_Coming forward._]
          Queer things,
          These here rings
          You sees in the grass
          When you pass.
          They say ’tis where Pharisees dances at night!
          Be that right?

      COLOMBINE. Quite right; yet once the circle that you see,
    Saw war and tumult.

      DAN’L.           Lawks-a-mussey me!

      COLOMBINE. The Roman legions camped on yonder brow,
    And built the road you stand on.

      NATHAN’L.                     Did they now!

      COLOMBINE. The sun would sink out yonder in the west,
    And shine upon their helmets.

      DAN’L.                      Well I’m blest!

      COLOMBINE. The very spot where Julius Caesar sat,
    Lies just behind those beeches.

      NATHAN’L.                    Think of that!

      COLOMBINE. In yonder barrow treasures rare lie hid.
    Dig deep to find them.

      DAN’L.               Well I never did!

      NATHAN’L. But when did all this
                Happen, Miss?
                How many years ago,
                I’d like to know?

      COLOMBINE. Roughly two thousand, on this very spot.

      DAN’L. Lor! What a memory you must have got.

      COLOMBINE. [_To_ NATHAN’L.] But tell me please;
    Beneath these trees,
    What travellers come, and whither bound?
    Do still these ancient heights resound
    With martial music and the tramp of men?

      NATHAN’L. Us gets a hurdy-gurdy now and then,
    And once a clown on stilts went through the wood;
    And oh! he could catch pennies, that he could.

      COLOMBINE. But in what fashion do you pass your days?

      NATHAN’L. I kill the time in various sorts of ways.
    Scaring the rooks as settles on the corn;
    Helping the shepherd when the lambs be born.
    Talking to Dan’l about these here rings,
    And wondering about a power of things.
    As don’t concern nobody, I suppose.
    But then, you must do summat, goodness knows.

      COLOMBINE. Of course. ’Tis lonely here without a doubt.
    What are the things you’re wondering about
    To-day?

[Illustration]

      NATHAN’L. Such things as surely never was.
    Such things as surely no one ever does.
    And yet, of nothing, for they moves so fast,
    You finds as you’ve forgotten them at last.
    Just like a dream they passes and be gone.
    Just like a dream they passes....

      COLOMBINE.                      Yes, go on.

      NATHAN’L. Just like a dream, for though I thinks a lot,
    Before they’re rightly thought they’re clean forgot.
    Though somehow, now I sits and talks to you,
    I keeps remembering things I never knew.
    Just like as though somebody slammed a door,
    When you was going where you’d been before;
    Leaving you standing on the further side,
    Wondering at what was happening inside.
    Whether the folk you knew was there or not;
    Whether you really knew, and had forgot;
    Whether you’d been there once when you was small,
    Or whether you was never there at all.
    ’Tis plaguey awkerd, wondering, that it be.
    And now I must be off, I wants my tea.                    [_Exit._

      COLOMBINE. Good-bye. And think sometimes of me.

                           [_Rousing herself from the brown study into
                             which this revelation has thrown her, and
                             addressing_ DAN’L.

    Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. [_Startled._] Eh?

      COLOMBINE. Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. It all depends. Why?

      COLOMBINE. There’s going to be a fight.

      DAN’L. When? Where?

      COLOMBINE. Very soon.
             By the light of the moon.
             On the very stroke of nine.
             All for love of Colombine.

      DAN’L. Shall I fetch a policeman?

      COLOMBINE. A policeman! Dear me, no.

      DAN’L. Who’s going to fight.

      COLOMBINE. Don’t you know?
                             Harlequin and Pierrot.

      DAN’L. Never heard of they.

      COLOMBINE. Won’t it be fun?

      DAN’L. Good fun
                      For the one as gets killed.

      COLOMBINE. But they won’t kill each other. They never do. They’re
    _most_ dependable.

      DAN’L. Have um fought before?

      COLOMBINE. Of course. Hundreds of times.

      DAN’L. Silly young chaps.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. They’re not silly. They’re fighting for me. Don’t you
    understand?

      DAN’L. I fought about a girl once. But only once. It was a long
    time ago.

      COLOMBINE. You’re not romantic. Romance would die if it wasn’t
    for fighting. Romance _is_ fighting.

      DAN’L. Then I’ve had quite enough romance to please me.

      COLOMBINE. All properly constituted love affairs should include
    a fight. Love without fighting is insipid.

      DAN’L. _You_ don’t have to do the fighting. Which of ’em loves
    you the most?

      COLOMBINE. Why, Pierrot, of course.

      DAN’L. Then why don’t you marry him?

      COLOMBINE. And disappoint Harlequin? I couldn’t do that.

      DAN’L. When are you going to decide?

      COLOMBINE. I don’t know. [_On her fingers._] This year, next
    year, some time, never. To-night perhaps.

      DAN’L. One day they’ll get tired of fighting. What then?

      COLOMBINE. Never!

      DAN’L. You’re sure of that?

      COLOMBINE. Oh, yes. Quite sure.

      DAN’L. One of them may get killed.

      COLOMBINE. They wouldn’t be so careless.

      DAN’L. What should you do if one of ’em got killed by accident?

      COLOMBINE. I should be very angry. But you’re very horrid to
    suggest such things. Why don’t you go away?

      DAN’L. Good-bye.

      COLOMBINE. No, stay.

      DAN’L. Well, I’m fond of a fight, I must say.

      COLOMBINE. Hush! They are coming. Quick, behind this tree.

      DAN’L. Anywhere in the background’s good enough for me.

      COLOMBINE. A fight, a fight! And all for love of me.

                    [_The orchestra plays quietly the Soldiers’ Chorus
                        and snatches of other martial refrains. The
                        two watchers betray tense excitement._
                        HARLEQUIN _and_ PIERROT _enter arm in arm.
                        Any differences they may have had are evidently
                        settled._ COLOMBINE _looks on in astonishment_.

[Illustration]

      HARLEQUIN. Mind you, as girls go, Colombine’s one of the best.

      PIERROT. Ah yes.

      HARLEQUIN. But nothing to fight about.

      PIERROT. [_Without conviction._] No.

      HARLEQUIN. And fighting’s going out of fashion. There’s no doubt
    about that.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. The whole trend of modern thought is opposed to it.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. None of the best people do it.

      PIERROT. I suppose not.

      HARLEQUIN. And one must be in the movement.

      PIERROT. Of course.

      HARLEQUIN. Arbitration’s the thing nowadays.

      PIERROT. What’s that?

      HARLEQUIN. Why, you each talk until you’re out of breath, and
    the one with most breath wins.

      PIERROT. [_Taking a deep breath._] That seems a good idea.

      HARLEQUIN. It is.

      PIERROT. But what will Colombine say if we don’t fight? She loves
    to watch us fight.

      HARLEQUIN. My dear chap, we must be firm. Adopt your point of
    view, and stick to it in the face of all opposition.

      COLOMBINE. [_Advancing._] Aren’t you going to fight?

      PIERROT. [_Kindly._] Not to-night.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! Why not?

      HARLEQUIN. Well, we’ve got
                 Other fish to fry,
                 That’s why.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! do fight!

      PIERROT. Not to-night.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, my dear girl, do listen to reason. You will admit,
    I suppose, that the most elementary point about a duel is to spit
    your opponent through the gizzard.

      COLOMBINE. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. Well, I haven’t got a gizzard, and what’s the use of
    trying to spit a man’s gizzard, if he hasn’t got a gizzard to spit?
    You must be reasonable.

      COLOMBINE. How do you know you haven’t got a gizzard?

      HARLEQUIN. We don’t know for certain, we assume.

      PIERROT. You’ve only to look at him to see there isn’t room.

      COLOMBINE. But why the gizzard? What does it matter _where_ you
    spit him so long as you do spit him?

      HARLEQUIN. For heaven’s sake, my dear girl, don’t preach such
    revolutionary doctrines. There is a certain etiquette to be
    observed, even in a battle.

      COLOMBINE. [_After a pause._] But it’s quite simple. You spit
    Pierrot. He’s got a gizzard, I suppose.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. Pierrot consulted a phrenologist....

      PIERROT. Soothsayer!

      HARLEQUIN. Sorry--soothsayer, who said he was born to be hung....

      PIERROT. Hanged!

      HARLEQUIN. Hanged, and so of course, he doesn’t want to run the
    risk of disappointing him.

      COLOMBINE. Very considerate, I’m sure.
    I think you’re absolutely _horrid_, there.               [_Cries._

      HARLEQUIN. [_To_ PIERROT.] Don’t waver, both together.

      HARLEQUIN and PIERROT. We don’t care
          Tuppence what you think or say,
          We talked the matter over, here to-day;
          And arbitration is the only way.

      COLOMBINE. You’re frightened.

      HARLEQUIN. Don’t be silly. Frightened! Me!

      COLOMBINE. Well, who’s your arbitrator going to be?

      HARLEQUIN. [_Taken aback._] Why yes, we must have someone, I
        suppose.
    But who’s to do it?

      PIERROT.          Goodness only knows!
    There’s not a single person within call.

    COLOMBINE. [_Clapping her hands._] Hurrah! You’ll have to fight,
      then, after all.

                       [_There is a pause, during which_ PIERROT _and_
                       HARLEQUIN _look at each other in dismay_.
                       COLOMBINE _on the other hand claps her
                       hands and pirouettes round the stage. Then_
                       HARLEQUIN _sees_ DAN’L _and drags him forward
                       at the same time speaking in asides_.

      HARLEQUIN. What’s your name?

      DAN’L. Much the same
            As it’s always bin,
            Week out, week in,
            This seventy year and more.

      HARLEQUIN. Good! We want you to arbitrate.
    You’re the very man.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey. I’ll do it if I can.

      HARLEQUIN. There’s much gold.
               Wealth untold!
               If you only do
               As I tell you to.

      DAN’L. Fire away!

      HARLEQUIN. Until to-day, Pierrot and I have been in the habit of
    engaging in mortal combat for the hand of Colombine. Owing to the
    fact that up to the present neither has had the decency to get
    killed, and as a result of the wave of anti-militarism that has
    swept over the country, we have decided to fall back on arbitration.
    And you are the arbitrator. You understand?

      DAN’L. No!

      HARLEQUIN. Then you’re very thick.

      DAN’L. You speaks too quick
    And the way you keeps hopping about makes me fair mazed.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. One of us is to marry
    Colombine, and you’ve to decide which it’s to be.
    Do you see?

      DAN’L. No.

      HARLEQUIN. But it’s quite simple.

      DAN’L. Maybe. But how do I know which it’s to be?

      HARLEQUIN. I’ll let you into a secret. It’s me!

      DAN’L. Oh! And if I goes and sez ’tis you,
    What’s yon chap in the white trousers going to do?

      HARLEQUIN. Never mind him. He’s a fool.

      DAN’L. It seems it don’t much matter what I say;
    I’m bound to upset one of ye either way.
    Oh! very well.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Pierrot! Gather round.

                        [_They sit in a semicircle_; COLOMBINE _and_
                          DAN’L _in the centre_.

      DAN’L. I shall catch my death of cold, sitting on this damp
    ground.

                        [_There is silence, each waiting for the other
                          to speak._

      COLOMBINE. You don’t seem very anxious, either of you.

      DAN’L. Who goes first?

      HARLEQUIN. If I don’t say something, and quickly, I shall burst.

      DAN’L. Then you’d best get started. [_Aside._] How long will it take?

      HARLEQUIN. Until it’s ended.

      DAN’L. Cut it short for goodness’ sake.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Let me take you away from these lonely hills.
    Into the heart of the world where lies the Land of Yesterday. There
    are stored all the happy hours that you have known. You shall live
    them all over again, Colombine--every one. I will lead you by secret
    paths, through the dim woods of yesternight until we stand together
    in the sunlight of the days that have been. Walking backward through
    the years, we will collect those dear lost delights, of which only
    the memory remains. From all that has gone before, it shall be yours
    to pick and choose, and no To-morrow shall throw its ominous shade
    before. The past shall deliver up its treasures to your hand; regrets
    shall be ended, and happiness shall be sure. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. No, Harlequin. The road to your Land of Yesterday is
    longer than you know, and there is no going back. Let us still take
    from the past our memories and our dreams, but do not ask for more,
    lest even these be denied.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: THE GATEWAY OF HAPPINESS]

      HARLEQUIN. As you will. Then it is to the future that we must
    turn. Colombine, far from here, set in a desert of hot sand, is a
    crystal, so large, that all the giants of Africa could not stir
    it the thickness of a hair. Peering into its depths, you may read
    your future to the end of time. A day, a week, a year, shall be no
    barrier to the vision of the mind. You may read all the riddles of
    the universe, and there will remain nothing that you do not know. You
    shall see your face as it will be when twice twenty harvest moons
    have waned, and fifty summer suns have set. And I, alone, can point
    you the way. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. You promise much, Harlequin. It may well be that in some
    spot remote from the haunts of men, the Mirror of Fate yet lies hid.
    And you may find it. Who knows! But this, at least, is certain; the
    path will be difficult and the journey long. Would you not tire by
    the way, Harlequin? I think you would. [_Pause._] And, it is not in
    distant deserts I would seek. In the woods of home, hearts may thrill
    to the eloquent silences of the night. [HARLEQUIN _rises_.] All the
    secrets of the world might be ours, did we but care to learn the
    simple language of the nightingale. Across the moonlight, the shadows
    of the branches trace unforgettable things. Great secrets tremble on
    the lips of the leaves, and mortals grope vainly in the daylight for
    things seen most plainly in the dark.

      DAN’L. [_Coughing to draw attention to himself._]
    I’ve allus noticed, in whatever parts I med ha’ bin,
    A maid in love have allus got a fairish yarn to spin.
    And in whatever parts I’ve bin, I’ve allus noticed too,
    The foolish lads do take it all for gospel, that um do.
    But though I’ve kept good notice in whatever parts I was,
    I’ve never heard a maid to spin a yarn like this un does.
    Ur be a marvel, that ur be; I hope as ur won’t try
    When ur’s tired of you two fellows here, to spin no yarns to I;
    For fools be mostly biggest fools when um be old and grey.
    And if I went along o’ she, what _ud_ my missus say.
    Next man?

      COLOMBINE. Come, Pierrot!

      PIERROT. [_With an effort._] Colombine!

      COLOMBINE. Yes, Pierrot.

      HARLEQUIN. Go on!

      DAN’L. Let’s hear what you’ve got to say, young fellow.

      PIERROT. There is nothing to say.

      COLOMBINE. Nothing to say!

      PIERROT. Save that I love you, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. And is that so small a thing, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. But I have nothing to offer you, nothing.

      COLOMBINE. [_Softly._] Save yourself.

      HARLEQUIN. I have always said that Pierrot was master of sounding
    silences. The sweetest singer of unsung songs, his eloquent nothings
    go shrieking through the void. He scorns to desecrate the virgin
    purity of his foolscap with the written word. What love is that which
    dare not tell its love? Come, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. See, Harlequin, here is a beech nut. You shake it, yet
    there is no sound. Is it full? Is it empty?

      HARLEQUIN. Who can say?

      DAN’L. Likewise, young Nathan’l he picks up a match-box last week,
    and throws it away because there was no sound when he rattles en
    [_To_ HARLEQUIN.] And what do you think?

      HARLEQUIN. I couldn’t say.

      DAN’L. It was so full all the time as not to rattle at all.

      HARLEQUIN. [_Scornfully._] Matches! ye gods! Let’s talk of cucumbers,
    Or shame the glory of this summer night
    With tales of warming-pans.
    Has no one here a button-hook,
    With which to probe the vast unsounded deeps
    [_To_ DAN’L.] Of thy poor addled brain.
    It yet may be,
    In some uncharted corner of the void
    That passes for thy mind,
    We find a collar-stud.
    Farewell!                                                 [_Exit._

      DAN’L. Well, he won’t come back again, that I will be bound,
    And as I be catching my death of cold, sitting on this damp ground,
    I’d best be moving. [_Rises._] Ugh! Good-night to ee.

      PIERROT. Good-night!

      COLOMBINE. [_Aside to_ DAN’L.] And, Mr. Arbitrator, if you see
    Your friend Nathan’l, say that Pierrot
    Owes more to him than he will ever know. [_Exit_ DAN’L.

      COLOMBINE. They have gone!

      PIERROT. Ah!

      COLOMBINE. And the night draws on.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      COLOMBINE. You are sad. Why are you sad, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. I cannot tell.

      COLOMBINE. And you are cold. Is it the night air?

      PIERROT. The wind-swept wold
    Is a street of gold,
    So my lady be walking there.

      COLOMBINE. Yet you are sad. See, they have gone and will not
    come again.

      PIERROT. So love may vanish too,
    And of his chain no link remain
    To tell the way he flew.

      COLOMBINE. Love, as the skylark, soars into that Heaven where’t
    fain would be.

      PIERROT. And singing still, returns. Time was when you, with
    Harlequin, would revel till the cold grey dawn came in.

      COLOMBINE. Light loves sometime were pleasant, but to-night the
    face of love seems changed. No more will stray this wandering heart
    of mine.

      PIERROT. Are you not sorry, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. Sorry for what, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. For loss of Harlequin.

      COLOMBINE. Harlequin is very clever but he talks of what he does
    not know, and promises what is not his to give. Cleverness is not
    everything, Pierrot. The mind is like a garden full of flowers, but
        The heart is a little house,
        With windows facing southerly;
        By which a pathway winds.
        And there, behind the blinds,
        We sit and wait,
        Watching, waiting for what?
        We know not.

    The garden is a pleasant place in summer, but when it is winter, we
    seek the fireside of the little house.

      PIERROT. Yet you are fond of gardens and pretty flowers, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. What flowers grow
          In your garden, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. My garden is full of the flowers,
          My mother planted for me;
          Curious, old-world flowers,
          Thyme, lavender, rosemary.
          Planted in days gone by.
          And, though no gardener I,
          As the shadows fall, I tend them all;
          Watering, pruning there.
          Am I happy in my lot?
          I know not.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. And there is the little house, Pierrot.

      PIERROT. Ah, yes there is the little house.
          Do you remember when
          You peeped through the pane, and then
          Went on your way again?
          Out of my sight, although,
          I beckoned you as you passed,
          And sat at my window mournfully.
          But you came again at last.
          And, seeing you come, I said;
          “The flowers in my garden are dead,
          So will she have no more of me.”

    COLOMBINE. I am knocking at the door, Pierrot.
          Knocking and waiting there,
          For the sound of a step on the stair.
          Will you open to me, Pierrot?

                                [PIERROT’S _answer may be taken in the
                                  affirmative. As they sit together, it
                                  grows dark._

[Illustration]

      PIERROT. [_Rising._] Come dear, and let us go,
    Together, hand in hand,
    Into that sun-lit land,
    Where life and love are things inseparable.
    Where, beneath cloudless skies,
    The happy are the wise,
    And none reprove the glory of a love they may not understand.

                                                     [_Exit together._
                          [_It becomes quite dark_: DAN’L _and an_ OLD
                            MAN _pass slowly across the stage, carrying
                            lanterns, and peering cautiously into the
                            blackness of the night_.

      THE OLD MAN. You was dreaming, Dan’l. That’s about the size of it.

      DAN’L. And I tells ee I wur as wide awake as you be. Us had been
    sitting over-long by the clump, and all of a sudden I looks up and
    sees a fairy. “Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l,” I sez, “be I dreaming or
    be I cracked?”

                              [_They pass off, and the curtain falls._


                                FINIS

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                             OTHER VERSES




                            THE MARIONETTE


        Man is merely a marionette
          On invisible wires suspended.
        And it’s just as well he shouldn’t forget
            That Fate the showman is in the wings,
            Working the business and pulling the strings
        Till his turn is over and ended.

        Man is merely a figure on strings,
          By the glare of the footlights blinded.
        And the wonderful way he dances and sings
            Is not unlikely to fill his mind
            With a great contempt for the Power behind,
        Till suddenly he’s reminded.

        Man is the cream of an idle jest,
          A smile on the face of sorrow.
        A sad peculiar figure at best;
            Willing to sacrifice every day,
            Breaking his heart in the hope of play
        On a problematical morrow.




                          A LETTER FROM HOME


        I’ve a letter from home to-day;
        A letter from home to say
        That they’re cutting the trees in the Priory Wood,
        That lambing is over and crops are good.
        Quite the usual thing, be it understood,
        Is my letter from home, to-day.

        I’ve a letter from home, to-day;
        A letter from far away,
        Bidding me ever to bear in mind
        The dear old friends I have left behind.
        But I’m not of the quickly forgetting kind,
        Dear letter from home, to-day!

        In my letter from home, to-day;
        Is a postscript, just to say
        “No doubt you’ll be very much grieved to hear
        That the girl who stayed at the Grange last year,
        Is dead, and was yesterday buried here.”
        And the world has ended, to-day.




                           THE EXPLANATION


                How do I know I love you?
                Why, because
                When you’re away, d’ye see,
                I kind o’ wanders lonesome like
                An’ frets,
                ’Cause you’re not there with me.
                An’ when I meet you by the stile
                At night,
                And not a soul to see,
                I scarce durst speak to you because
                You’re you, an’ I’m just me.




                              MEMORANDA


                In your Book of Memory,
                Set aside no page for me.
                Do not write our friendship there,
                But, if you’ve the time to spare,
                Scribble just this hurried line:
                “He was once a friend of mine.”

                Blot it very carefully,
                Turn the page that none may see.
                Life goes singing down the way
                Different ballads every day.
                Other pages open fair,
                Set new tales of friendship there.

                And the day will come maybe,
                When that hurried line of me;
                Seen by chance a moment’s space,
                Will recall a vanished face,
                And a memory sweeter than
                Many written pages can.




                      LOVE, LAUGHTER, AND AFTER


            The ruinous cottage, the broken latch;
            The cold stone floor and the dripping thatch.
            The ripe red lips of the girl who stands
            Holding her lover’s hands.

            The gay Casino, the fancy ball;
            The twinkling lights of the crowded hall.
            The cool sweet air of the terrace dim,
            Love and laughter and--him.

            The pitiful pageant that follows soon;
            The music hall and the cheap saloon.
            The sad procession, the coffee stall.
            The river that ends it all.




                             TH’ COORTIN’


                ’Tis just about a wik ago,
                  Or mebbe two, or theresabout,
                As I axed Kate why ur an’ Joe
                  Was seed together waalking out;
                Whenas, fur nigh upon a year,
                ’Twur I as had been coortin’ ur.

                “Why, laws-a-mussey, Bill,” ur sez,
                  “Fur certain sure ye must allow
                Us two caan’t alluz spend our days
                  The same as us be doin’ now.
                Ye’d better wed wi’ one ye doan’t
                Than waalk wi’ one ye do, as woan’t.”

                I cudden zackly understand
                  What ’twur as she was drivin’ at,
                Until I cotched ur by the hand
                  And took a peep ’erneath ur hat.
                Wur what I see surprised I so,
                  I gi’ed ur kiss, an’ whispered low:
                “Ye’d better wed the feller who
                Has alluz bin in luv wi’ you.”
                And that’s just what ur means to do.




                              AGREEMENT

                    Oyez! Oyez! Behold we state
                    The rules of this our Syndicate.


              Let it be granted first of all,
              That you are not so young and small
              As foolish people would suppose,
              From your long hair and shorter clothes.

              Item the second, please agree
              To just the opposite in me.
              For would the wisest man alive
              Imagine I was twenty-five?

              This done, folk cannot make a fuss,
              Or say that we’re preposterous.
              For you become, as all may see,
              A chaperone in charge of me.

              Thirdly, this reservation’s made,
              The Syndicate’s too old and staid
              To ride (though you’ll object no doubt)
              In swinging boat and roundabout.

              Fourthly, the world’s a dear old place,
              So always keep a smiling face.
              It suits you best, and as to that,
              So does pink chiffon in your hat.

              Lastly, lest envious folk combine
              To wreck your Syndicate, and mine,
              My autograph is here affixed,
              Written in blood and water mixed.

       _P.S._ It may not look like blood to you
              But recollect my blood is blue.




                             THE BURYIN’


                The mists be on the river bed,
                The roses all be gone;
                And here be I, about to die,
                Wi’ harvest coming on.
                Dear Lord, I’ve trapsed some weary miles,
                I’ll be main glad to rest awhiles.

                The folk’ll soon be in the fields,
                A-getting in the grain.
                For most of those, the time I’ve chose
                Be awkerd in the main.
                Though not so bad, ’tis sure, for they
                As be a-working by the day.

                September be a better month
                For all the carter men;
                And when I die don’t signify,
                So let I bide till then.
                The wagons’ll be standing by,
                And there’ll be time to bury I.




                          A ZONG TO ZING-OH!


            When the zun beyond the Beacon be a-zettin’
            And everything’s as quiet as can be,
            By the gate to varmur’s meddy,
            That old gate zo vurm and zteddy,
            You be pretty zure uv vindin’ Jim and me.

            When the mists along the valley be uprisin’
            And the nightingale’s a-zingin’ in the tree;
            When the peewits be a-zquawkin’
            Uz don’t waste no time a-talkin’
            Time’s a vasty zight too short sez Jim an’ me

            With the honeyzuckle zcent zo thick as treacle,
            And the chestnut blossoms droppin’ onto we;
            As us zets zo close together,
            Why zometimes I wonders whether
            Jim ull zet that close in Paradise to me.

            When the clocks down in the village be a-strikin’
            And darkness comes a-creepin’ up the lea,
            Then, though us be zeldom ready,
            Us must leave old varmur’s meddy,
            Or the volk ull all be wonderin’ where us be.




                                 SONG


            Long ago,
            (How long ago I really don’t know;)
            A kingfisher lived in a valley of green,
            The finest kingfisher that ever was seen--
            In that little green valley I know.

            Silent and slow
            All in a row, buttercups grow.
            One day the kingfisher selected his queen,
            And the bride wore a costume of purple and green
            ’Neath the willows that stand in a row.

            Heigho!
            (As the years go, still the streams flow)
            The whole of this summer they haven’t been seen,
            And a wood-pecker reigns in that valley serene.
            Where they’ve gone to I really don’t know.




                              PHILOSOPHY


                When I was young, in days gone by,
                I smoked Wild Woodbines on the sly.
                They made me ill, but what of that?
                ’Twas nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                If I had shirked that pallid brow
                I couldn’t smoke Havanas now.

                The only girl I ever kissed,
                Both found and left an optimist.
                She jilted me, but even that
                Was nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                I’ve such a cozy little den,
                And know a lot of married men.

                And now, although I’m getting stout,
                And though my hair is falling out,
                And people call me old and fat,
                There’s nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                Although I am a perfect fright,
                I don’t look bad by candle light.




                               FORFEITS


                You fail to catch the trencher spun
                And, later, when the game is done,
                The lady who collects the fees
                Demands a forfeit, if you please.
                You find a penny, grimed and black,
                And hope that you may get it back.

                You sit in speechless misery,
                And wonder what your fate will be,
                Until, within that giggling ring,
                You have to claim the wretched thing;
                Then sally forth upon your quest,
                To kiss the one you love the best.

                You don’t appreciate the fun,
                But curb a wild desire to run;
                Then seek a matron staid and stout,
                And drag the willing victim out;
                Because, of course, it wouldn’t do
                To kiss the girl you wanted to.




                             THE REVIVAL


            Take me away, for I will see no more;
            It was but yesterday I saw the play before,
            The day on which my dear and I were wed--
            Your mother, child--your mother who is dead.
            Why did you bring me here to see a play
            Which she and I saw only yesterday?




                         A PATRON OF THE ARTS


                    I knew a lady once I did,
                    Who lived away at Pontypridd;
                    She liked my verses very much,
                    And said I had the lyric touch.

                    She used to ask me round to lunch,
                    And say I ought to edit “Punch,”
                    As Owen S. and Francis B.,
                    Were amateurs compared to me.

                    Last week I met her in a batch
                    Of lunatics at Colney Hatch,
                    And heard she always spoke of me
                    As far surpassing Calverley.




                              CRITICISM


                A simple poet on a time,
                Resolved to write a simple rhyme.
                His verse was pleasing to the ear;
                He also made his meaning clear.

                The critics glanced at it, and said
                Such rubbish they had never read.
                A point on which they did agree,
                With touching unanimity.

                The simple poet took his lay,
                And turned it round the other way.
                Shuffled the sentences about,
                And took a dozen commas out.

                The critics took the volume, and
                Read, marked--and failed to understand.
                Then fell upon their stomachs flat,
                This prodigy to marvel at.




                           TREASON AND PLOT


                When I am very, very rich,
                  And very famous, too,
                I’ll take a cab to Regent’s Park,
                  And walk into the Zoo
                With quite a consequential air,
                For I shall be the richest there.

                And in a lordly way I’ll take
                  A shilling from my purse,
                And buy the biggest rattle-snake
                  To carry home to Nurse,
                And, as she’s very short of breath,
                Perhaps ’twill frighten her to death.




                        THE POPPY AND THE POET


                Like poppies in the golden corn,
                  The poet’s race is run;
                Each strives alike to gain the ear;
                  The poppy from the sun
                Borrows more radiance than gold--
                A poet’s much the same, I’m told.

                But still these differences appear
                  When everything is said;
                The poet’s leaves, I greatly fear,
                  Are very seldom read.
                Poppies but borrow from the sun--
                A poet will from anyone.




                              EL DORADO


                He sought it through the golden isles
                Of Once Upon a Time.
                In fabled fields of Might Have Been
                He heard its distant chime.
                He saw, mid Dreamland’s mystic glades,
                Its turrets from afar;
                And found it in the valley, where
                The deepest shadows are.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


The Project Gutenberg eBook of Colombine a fantasy
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Colombine a fantasy
        and other verses

Author: Reginald Arkell

Illustrator: Frederick Carter

Release date: June 19, 2025 [eBook #76341]

Language: English

Original publication: London: Benn and Cronin, Ltd, 1911

Credits: Carol Brown, Charlene Taylor and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***

Transcriber’s Note:

Words and phrases in italics are surrounded by underscores, _like
this_.

“ro” was changed to “to” ... desire to run ...




  COLOMBINE

  A FANTASY

  AND OTHER VERSES




  _LONDON_
  BENN AND CRONIN, LTD.
  CRAVEN HOUSE, KINGSWAY, W.C.
  1911




       _Copyright: Entered at Stationers’ Hall, December 1911.
                  Acting Rights strictly Reserved._




[Illustration: COLOMBINE.]




[Illustration:

  COLOMBINE
  A FANTASY

  BY REGINALD ARKELL

  WITH SOME DRAWINGS
  BY FREDERICK CARTER.]




[Illustration]




                            AUTHOR’S NOTE

“COLOMBINE” was first performed at Clavier Hall, Hanover Square, W.,
on Thursday, 7th December 1911, with the following cast:

    Dan’l (an old man)         MR. B. BUTLER.
    Nathan’l (a boy)           MR. A. E. FILMER.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Harlequin                  MR. REGINALD BACH.
    Pierrot                    MR. MARK HANNAM.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Colombine                  MISS ETHEL EVANS.

    The play was produced by MR. A. E. FILMER.


                                SCENE

  A ROMAN CAMP on the summit of Cissbury Beacon in the South Downs.
     A fairy ring occupies the foreground. All round are beech trees.
     The time is evening.




[Illustration]




                               PROLOGUE


    There are circles of green upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the Pharisees dance--so they say;
    Revelling merrily round it until
    The dawn over Ditchling is gray.
    And travellers lost upon Cissbury Hill--
    (Pixy-led folk who stray)
    Seated on toad-stools, with fairy folk sup,
    _But here, in Haymarket, the roadway is up_.

    There are circles of beech upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the leaves of a lifetime decay;
    Hiding the memories, lingering still,
    Of Rome’s indisputable sway.
    And under the beech-leaves of Cissbury Hill,
    Throbs the heart of the downland alway.
    While dreaming of chieftains and warriors in woad,
    _You’re lighting your pipe in the Charing Cross Road_.




[Illustration]




                              COLOMBINE


     _An old man and a boy are seen talking; both are labourers.
                 The old man, who is seated, speaks_:

      DAN’L. Well, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. There’s little use in stopping here much longer.

      NATHAN’L. Not as I can see.

      DAN’L. Like my old eyes, the sun don’t grow no stronger.

      NATHAN’L. And I wants my tea.

      DAN’L. Do ee, lad?

      NATHAN’L. Ah, main bad.

      DAN’L. Which means ’tis time to go, I reckons.

      NATHAN’L. That’s a proposition as I seconds.

      DAN’L. Come on then, let’s be moving. Tip us yer daddle.

      NATHAN’L. All of a sudden you be in a mortal caddle.
    I wants to hear the finish of that yarn
    As you was spinning down at Tranter’s Barn.
    A peck of troubles it was all about.
    I wants to know how everything turned out.

      DAN’L. You wants your tea, that’s what you wants, my son.

      NATHAN’L. There’s time enough for tea when you be done.

      DAN’L. Well, though ’tis little enough I read,
    I sid in a story-book years ago,
    (Though mind, Nathan’l, there beant no need
    To be letting on as I told ee so)
    That all the troubles as worrits a man
    Was locked in a box when the world began.

    And there no doubt they’d ha’ bid till now,
    If the dummel soul as had got the key,
    Hadn’t got mixed up with a maid somehow
    And gone and handed it over to she.
    And what do ee fancy the maiden did?
    Darn me, Nathan’l, ur lifted the lid.

[Illustration]

    And all they troubles come trooping out,
    Like hens from a chicken-run might have done.
    For the maiden fancied without a doubt,
    They’d go back in the evening like, one by one.
    But time’s got to settle a few more clocks,
    Afore they troubles goes back to their box.

    Straight, Nathan’l, ’tis near enough
    To make a methody parson swear.
    And every time as I reads such stuff,
    I goes so red as yon moon up there.
    To think of the trouble ur brought on we--
    I reckon I owes my old gal to she.

      NATHAN’L. Is it true, do ee think, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, mebbe not, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee think, Dan’l--she let out the lot?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe not.

      NATHAN’L. Sounds like a fairy story to me.

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe, mebbe.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee believe in fairies, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Can’t be sure as I do, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, I don’t anyway, and that’s a fact.

                          _Enter_ COLOMBINE.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l, be I dreaming or be I cracked?

      NATHAN’L. My goodness, Dan’l, I do believe as she’s a fairy....

      DAN’L. Here, come into the shadow of these trees,
    And give that clacking tongue of yourn a rest.

      NATHAN’L. Oh, this be more wonderful than all the things I ever
          guessed.

      DAN’L. And it means _summat_ that you _may_ depend.

      NATHAN’L. See, where she walks, the grass don’t even bend
    Beneath her feet. She be a fairy, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. I wish you’d hold your clacking tongue, Nathan’l.

                      [COLOMBINE, _hearing a noise, pauses to listen_.

      COLOMBINE. Who’s there? The daylight fades. I cannot see.

      DAN’L. You go.

      NATHAN’L.     No, you.

      DAN’L.                So please you, Miss, ’tis we.

      COLOMBINE. Good evening, Sirs.

      DAN’L.                Our best respects to ee.
    A goodish evening to be sure, but getting dark and cold.
    Time gals like you was safe abed, if I might make so bold.

      COLOMBINE. Old man, the night has but begun.

      DAN’L. The day be done.

      COLOMBINE. The moon has scarcely risen yet.

      DAN’L. The sun have set.

      COLOMBINE. The sun his wandering footsteps stays to greet the crescent moon.
    The nightjar and the nightingale will both be singing soon.

      DAN’L. Us don’t set much store by nightingales in these parts,
            and as for nightjars! Oh lor, us shoots they.
          Give I a linnet now,
          A-sitting on a bough;
          As sings his message to the sun,
          And goes to sleep when day be done,
          Respectable like!

      NATHAN’L. [_Coming forward._]
          Queer things,
          These here rings
          You sees in the grass
          When you pass.
          They say ’tis where Pharisees dances at night!
          Be that right?

      COLOMBINE. Quite right; yet once the circle that you see,
    Saw war and tumult.

      DAN’L.           Lawks-a-mussey me!

      COLOMBINE. The Roman legions camped on yonder brow,
    And built the road you stand on.

      NATHAN’L.                     Did they now!

      COLOMBINE. The sun would sink out yonder in the west,
    And shine upon their helmets.

      DAN’L.                      Well I’m blest!

      COLOMBINE. The very spot where Julius Caesar sat,
    Lies just behind those beeches.

      NATHAN’L.                    Think of that!

      COLOMBINE. In yonder barrow treasures rare lie hid.
    Dig deep to find them.

      DAN’L.               Well I never did!

      NATHAN’L. But when did all this
                Happen, Miss?
                How many years ago,
                I’d like to know?

      COLOMBINE. Roughly two thousand, on this very spot.

      DAN’L. Lor! What a memory you must have got.

      COLOMBINE. [_To_ NATHAN’L.] But tell me please;
    Beneath these trees,
    What travellers come, and whither bound?
    Do still these ancient heights resound
    With martial music and the tramp of men?

      NATHAN’L. Us gets a hurdy-gurdy now and then,
    And once a clown on stilts went through the wood;
    And oh! he could catch pennies, that he could.

      COLOMBINE. But in what fashion do you pass your days?

      NATHAN’L. I kill the time in various sorts of ways.
    Scaring the rooks as settles on the corn;
    Helping the shepherd when the lambs be born.
    Talking to Dan’l about these here rings,
    And wondering about a power of things.
    As don’t concern nobody, I suppose.
    But then, you must do summat, goodness knows.

      COLOMBINE. Of course. ’Tis lonely here without a doubt.
    What are the things you’re wondering about
    To-day?

[Illustration]

      NATHAN’L. Such things as surely never was.
    Such things as surely no one ever does.
    And yet, of nothing, for they moves so fast,
    You finds as you’ve forgotten them at last.
    Just like a dream they passes and be gone.
    Just like a dream they passes....

      COLOMBINE.                      Yes, go on.

      NATHAN’L. Just like a dream, for though I thinks a lot,
    Before they’re rightly thought they’re clean forgot.
    Though somehow, now I sits and talks to you,
    I keeps remembering things I never knew.
    Just like as though somebody slammed a door,
    When you was going where you’d been before;
    Leaving you standing on the further side,
    Wondering at what was happening inside.
    Whether the folk you knew was there or not;
    Whether you really knew, and had forgot;
    Whether you’d been there once when you was small,
    Or whether you was never there at all.
    ’Tis plaguey awkerd, wondering, that it be.
    And now I must be off, I wants my tea.                    [_Exit._

      COLOMBINE. Good-bye. And think sometimes of me.

                           [_Rousing herself from the brown study into
                             which this revelation has thrown her, and
                             addressing_ DAN’L.

    Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. [_Startled._] Eh?

      COLOMBINE. Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. It all depends. Why?

      COLOMBINE. There’s going to be a fight.

      DAN’L. When? Where?

      COLOMBINE. Very soon.
             By the light of the moon.
             On the very stroke of nine.
             All for love of Colombine.

      DAN’L. Shall I fetch a policeman?

      COLOMBINE. A policeman! Dear me, no.

      DAN’L. Who’s going to fight.

      COLOMBINE. Don’t you know?
                             Harlequin and Pierrot.

      DAN’L. Never heard of they.

      COLOMBINE. Won’t it be fun?

      DAN’L. Good fun
                      For the one as gets killed.

      COLOMBINE. But they won’t kill each other. They never do. They’re
    _most_ dependable.

      DAN’L. Have um fought before?

      COLOMBINE. Of course. Hundreds of times.

      DAN’L. Silly young chaps.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. They’re not silly. They’re fighting for me. Don’t you
    understand?

      DAN’L. I fought about a girl once. But only once. It was a long
    time ago.

      COLOMBINE. You’re not romantic. Romance would die if it wasn’t
    for fighting. Romance _is_ fighting.

      DAN’L. Then I’ve had quite enough romance to please me.

      COLOMBINE. All properly constituted love affairs should include
    a fight. Love without fighting is insipid.

      DAN’L. _You_ don’t have to do the fighting. Which of ’em loves
    you the most?

      COLOMBINE. Why, Pierrot, of course.

      DAN’L. Then why don’t you marry him?

      COLOMBINE. And disappoint Harlequin? I couldn’t do that.

      DAN’L. When are you going to decide?

      COLOMBINE. I don’t know. [_On her fingers._] This year, next
    year, some time, never. To-night perhaps.

      DAN’L. One day they’ll get tired of fighting. What then?

      COLOMBINE. Never!

      DAN’L. You’re sure of that?

      COLOMBINE. Oh, yes. Quite sure.

      DAN’L. One of them may get killed.

      COLOMBINE. They wouldn’t be so careless.

      DAN’L. What should you do if one of ’em got killed by accident?

      COLOMBINE. I should be very angry. But you’re very horrid to
    suggest such things. Why don’t you go away?

      DAN’L. Good-bye.

      COLOMBINE. No, stay.

      DAN’L. Well, I’m fond of a fight, I must say.

      COLOMBINE. Hush! They are coming. Quick, behind this tree.

      DAN’L. Anywhere in the background’s good enough for me.

      COLOMBINE. A fight, a fight! And all for love of me.

                    [_The orchestra plays quietly the Soldiers’ Chorus
                        and snatches of other martial refrains. The
                        two watchers betray tense excitement._
                        HARLEQUIN _and_ PIERROT _enter arm in arm.
                        Any differences they may have had are evidently
                        settled._ COLOMBINE _looks on in astonishment_.

[Illustration]

      HARLEQUIN. Mind you, as girls go, Colombine’s one of the best.

      PIERROT. Ah yes.

      HARLEQUIN. But nothing to fight about.

      PIERROT. [_Without conviction._] No.

      HARLEQUIN. And fighting’s going out of fashion. There’s no doubt
    about that.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. The whole trend of modern thought is opposed to it.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. None of the best people do it.

      PIERROT. I suppose not.

      HARLEQUIN. And one must be in the movement.

      PIERROT. Of course.

      HARLEQUIN. Arbitration’s the thing nowadays.

      PIERROT. What’s that?

      HARLEQUIN. Why, you each talk until you’re out of breath, and
    the one with most breath wins.

      PIERROT. [_Taking a deep breath._] That seems a good idea.

      HARLEQUIN. It is.

      PIERROT. But what will Colombine say if we don’t fight? She loves
    to watch us fight.

      HARLEQUIN. My dear chap, we must be firm. Adopt your point of
    view, and stick to it in the face of all opposition.

      COLOMBINE. [_Advancing._] Aren’t you going to fight?

      PIERROT. [_Kindly._] Not to-night.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! Why not?

      HARLEQUIN. Well, we’ve got
                 Other fish to fry,
                 That’s why.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! do fight!

      PIERROT. Not to-night.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, my dear girl, do listen to reason. You will admit,
    I suppose, that the most elementary point about a duel is to spit
    your opponent through the gizzard.

      COLOMBINE. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. Well, I haven’t got a gizzard, and what’s the use of
    trying to spit a man’s gizzard, if he hasn’t got a gizzard to spit?
    You must be reasonable.

      COLOMBINE. How do you know you haven’t got a gizzard?

      HARLEQUIN. We don’t know for certain, we assume.

      PIERROT. You’ve only to look at him to see there isn’t room.

      COLOMBINE. But why the gizzard? What does it matter _where_ you
    spit him so long as you do spit him?

      HARLEQUIN. For heaven’s sake, my dear girl, don’t preach such
    revolutionary doctrines. There is a certain etiquette to be
    observed, even in a battle.

      COLOMBINE. [_After a pause._] But it’s quite simple. You spit
    Pierrot. He’s got a gizzard, I suppose.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. Pierrot consulted a phrenologist....

      PIERROT. Soothsayer!

      HARLEQUIN. Sorry--soothsayer, who said he was born to be hung....

      PIERROT. Hanged!

      HARLEQUIN. Hanged, and so of course, he doesn’t want to run the
    risk of disappointing him.

      COLOMBINE. Very considerate, I’m sure.
    I think you’re absolutely _horrid_, there.               [_Cries._

      HARLEQUIN. [_To_ PIERROT.] Don’t waver, both together.

      HARLEQUIN and PIERROT. We don’t care
          Tuppence what you think or say,
          We talked the matter over, here to-day;
          And arbitration is the only way.

      COLOMBINE. You’re frightened.

      HARLEQUIN. Don’t be silly. Frightened! Me!

      COLOMBINE. Well, who’s your arbitrator going to be?

      HARLEQUIN. [_Taken aback._] Why yes, we must have someone, I
        suppose.
    But who’s to do it?

      PIERROT.          Goodness only knows!
    There’s not a single person within call.

    COLOMBINE. [_Clapping her hands._] Hurrah! You’ll have to fight,
      then, after all.

                       [_There is a pause, during which_ PIERROT _and_
                       HARLEQUIN _look at each other in dismay_.
                       COLOMBINE _on the other hand claps her
                       hands and pirouettes round the stage. Then_
                       HARLEQUIN _sees_ DAN’L _and drags him forward
                       at the same time speaking in asides_.

      HARLEQUIN. What’s your name?

      DAN’L. Much the same
            As it’s always bin,
            Week out, week in,
            This seventy year and more.

      HARLEQUIN. Good! We want you to arbitrate.
    You’re the very man.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey. I’ll do it if I can.

      HARLEQUIN. There’s much gold.
               Wealth untold!
               If you only do
               As I tell you to.

      DAN’L. Fire away!

      HARLEQUIN. Until to-day, Pierrot and I have been in the habit of
    engaging in mortal combat for the hand of Colombine. Owing to the
    fact that up to the present neither has had the decency to get
    killed, and as a result of the wave of anti-militarism that has
    swept over the country, we have decided to fall back on arbitration.
    And you are the arbitrator. You understand?

      DAN’L. No!

      HARLEQUIN. Then you’re very thick.

      DAN’L. You speaks too quick
    And the way you keeps hopping about makes me fair mazed.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. One of us is to marry
    Colombine, and you’ve to decide which it’s to be.
    Do you see?

      DAN’L. No.

      HARLEQUIN. But it’s quite simple.

      DAN’L. Maybe. But how do I know which it’s to be?

      HARLEQUIN. I’ll let you into a secret. It’s me!

      DAN’L. Oh! And if I goes and sez ’tis you,
    What’s yon chap in the white trousers going to do?

      HARLEQUIN. Never mind him. He’s a fool.

      DAN’L. It seems it don’t much matter what I say;
    I’m bound to upset one of ye either way.
    Oh! very well.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Pierrot! Gather round.

                        [_They sit in a semicircle_; COLOMBINE _and_
                          DAN’L _in the centre_.

      DAN’L. I shall catch my death of cold, sitting on this damp
    ground.

                        [_There is silence, each waiting for the other
                          to speak._

      COLOMBINE. You don’t seem very anxious, either of you.

      DAN’L. Who goes first?

      HARLEQUIN. If I don’t say something, and quickly, I shall burst.

      DAN’L. Then you’d best get started. [_Aside._] How long will it take?

      HARLEQUIN. Until it’s ended.

      DAN’L. Cut it short for goodness’ sake.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Let me take you away from these lonely hills.
    Into the heart of the world where lies the Land of Yesterday. There
    are stored all the happy hours that you have known. You shall live
    them all over again, Colombine--every one. I will lead you by secret
    paths, through the dim woods of yesternight until we stand together
    in the sunlight of the days that have been. Walking backward through
    the years, we will collect those dear lost delights, of which only
    the memory remains. From all that has gone before, it shall be yours
    to pick and choose, and no To-morrow shall throw its ominous shade
    before. The past shall deliver up its treasures to your hand; regrets
    shall be ended, and happiness shall be sure. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. No, Harlequin. The road to your Land of Yesterday is
    longer than you know, and there is no going back. Let us still take
    from the past our memories and our dreams, but do not ask for more,
    lest even these be denied.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: THE GATEWAY OF HAPPINESS]

      HARLEQUIN. As you will. Then it is to the future that we must
    turn. Colombine, far from here, set in a desert of hot sand, is a
    crystal, so large, that all the giants of Africa could not stir
    it the thickness of a hair. Peering into its depths, you may read
    your future to the end of time. A day, a week, a year, shall be no
    barrier to the vision of the mind. You may read all the riddles of
    the universe, and there will remain nothing that you do not know. You
    shall see your face as it will be when twice twenty harvest moons
    have waned, and fifty summer suns have set. And I, alone, can point
    you the way. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. You promise much, Harlequin. It may well be that in some
    spot remote from the haunts of men, the Mirror of Fate yet lies hid.
    And you may find it. Who knows! But this, at least, is certain; the
    path will be difficult and the journey long. Would you not tire by
    the way, Harlequin? I think you would. [_Pause._] And, it is not in
    distant deserts I would seek. In the woods of home, hearts may thrill
    to the eloquent silences of the night. [HARLEQUIN _rises_.] All the
    secrets of the world might be ours, did we but care to learn the
    simple language of the nightingale. Across the moonlight, the shadows
    of the branches trace unforgettable things. Great secrets tremble on
    the lips of the leaves, and mortals grope vainly in the daylight for
    things seen most plainly in the dark.

      DAN’L. [_Coughing to draw attention to himself._]
    I’ve allus noticed, in whatever parts I med ha’ bin,
    A maid in love have allus got a fairish yarn to spin.
    And in whatever parts I’ve bin, I’ve allus noticed too,
    The foolish lads do take it all for gospel, that um do.
    But though I’ve kept good notice in whatever parts I was,
    I’ve never heard a maid to spin a yarn like this un does.
    Ur be a marvel, that ur be; I hope as ur won’t try
    When ur’s tired of you two fellows here, to spin no yarns to I;
    For fools be mostly biggest fools when um be old and grey.
    And if I went along o’ she, what _ud_ my missus say.
    Next man?

      COLOMBINE. Come, Pierrot!

      PIERROT. [_With an effort._] Colombine!

      COLOMBINE. Yes, Pierrot.

      HARLEQUIN. Go on!

      DAN’L. Let’s hear what you’ve got to say, young fellow.

      PIERROT. There is nothing to say.

      COLOMBINE. Nothing to say!

      PIERROT. Save that I love you, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. And is that so small a thing, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. But I have nothing to offer you, nothing.

      COLOMBINE. [_Softly._] Save yourself.

      HARLEQUIN. I have always said that Pierrot was master of sounding
    silences. The sweetest singer of unsung songs, his eloquent nothings
    go shrieking through the void. He scorns to desecrate the virgin
    purity of his foolscap with the written word. What love is that which
    dare not tell its love? Come, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. See, Harlequin, here is a beech nut. You shake it, yet
    there is no sound. Is it full? Is it empty?

      HARLEQUIN. Who can say?

      DAN’L. Likewise, young Nathan’l he picks up a match-box last week,
    and throws it away because there was no sound when he rattles en
    [_To_ HARLEQUIN.] And what do you think?

      HARLEQUIN. I couldn’t say.

      DAN’L. It was so full all the time as not to rattle at all.

      HARLEQUIN. [_Scornfully._] Matches! ye gods! Let’s talk of cucumbers,
    Or shame the glory of this summer night
    With tales of warming-pans.
    Has no one here a button-hook,
    With which to probe the vast unsounded deeps
    [_To_ DAN’L.] Of thy poor addled brain.
    It yet may be,
    In some uncharted corner of the void
    That passes for thy mind,
    We find a collar-stud.
    Farewell!                                                 [_Exit._

      DAN’L. Well, he won’t come back again, that I will be bound,
    And as I be catching my death of cold, sitting on this damp ground,
    I’d best be moving. [_Rises._] Ugh! Good-night to ee.

      PIERROT. Good-night!

      COLOMBINE. [_Aside to_ DAN’L.] And, Mr. Arbitrator, if you see
    Your friend Nathan’l, say that Pierrot
    Owes more to him than he will ever know. [_Exit_ DAN’L.

      COLOMBINE. They have gone!

      PIERROT. Ah!

      COLOMBINE. And the night draws on.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      COLOMBINE. You are sad. Why are you sad, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. I cannot tell.

      COLOMBINE. And you are cold. Is it the night air?

      PIERROT. The wind-swept wold
    Is a street of gold,
    So my lady be walking there.

      COLOMBINE. Yet you are sad. See, they have gone and will not
    come again.

      PIERROT. So love may vanish too,
    And of his chain no link remain
    To tell the way he flew.

      COLOMBINE. Love, as the skylark, soars into that Heaven where’t
    fain would be.

      PIERROT. And singing still, returns. Time was when you, with
    Harlequin, would revel till the cold grey dawn came in.

      COLOMBINE. Light loves sometime were pleasant, but to-night the
    face of love seems changed. No more will stray this wandering heart
    of mine.

      PIERROT. Are you not sorry, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. Sorry for what, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. For loss of Harlequin.

      COLOMBINE. Harlequin is very clever but he talks of what he does
    not know, and promises what is not his to give. Cleverness is not
    everything, Pierrot. The mind is like a garden full of flowers, but
        The heart is a little house,
        With windows facing southerly;
        By which a pathway winds.
        And there, behind the blinds,
        We sit and wait,
        Watching, waiting for what?
        We know not.

    The garden is a pleasant place in summer, but when it is winter, we
    seek the fireside of the little house.

      PIERROT. Yet you are fond of gardens and pretty flowers, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. What flowers grow
          In your garden, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. My garden is full of the flowers,
          My mother planted for me;
          Curious, old-world flowers,
          Thyme, lavender, rosemary.
          Planted in days gone by.
          And, though no gardener I,
          As the shadows fall, I tend them all;
          Watering, pruning there.
          Am I happy in my lot?
          I know not.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. And there is the little house, Pierrot.

      PIERROT. Ah, yes there is the little house.
          Do you remember when
          You peeped through the pane, and then
          Went on your way again?
          Out of my sight, although,
          I beckoned you as you passed,
          And sat at my window mournfully.
          But you came again at last.
          And, seeing you come, I said;
          “The flowers in my garden are dead,
          So will she have no more of me.”

    COLOMBINE. I am knocking at the door, Pierrot.
          Knocking and waiting there,
          For the sound of a step on the stair.
          Will you open to me, Pierrot?

                                [PIERROT’S _answer may be taken in the
                                  affirmative. As they sit together, it
                                  grows dark._

[Illustration]

      PIERROT. [_Rising._] Come dear, and let us go,
    Together, hand in hand,
    Into that sun-lit land,
    Where life and love are things inseparable.
    Where, beneath cloudless skies,
    The happy are the wise,
    And none reprove the glory of a love they may not understand.

                                                     [_Exit together._
                          [_It becomes quite dark_: DAN’L _and an_ OLD
                            MAN _pass slowly across the stage, carrying
                            lanterns, and peering cautiously into the
                            blackness of the night_.

      THE OLD MAN. You was dreaming, Dan’l. That’s about the size of it.

      DAN’L. And I tells ee I wur as wide awake as you be. Us had been
    sitting over-long by the clump, and all of a sudden I looks up and
    sees a fairy. “Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l,” I sez, “be I dreaming or
    be I cracked?”

                              [_They pass off, and the curtain falls._


                                FINIS

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                             OTHER VERSES




                            THE MARIONETTE


        Man is merely a marionette
          On invisible wires suspended.
        And it’s just as well he shouldn’t forget
            That Fate the showman is in the wings,
            Working the business and pulling the strings
        Till his turn is over and ended.

        Man is merely a figure on strings,
          By the glare of the footlights blinded.
        And the wonderful way he dances and sings
            Is not unlikely to fill his mind
            With a great contempt for the Power behind,
        Till suddenly he’s reminded.

        Man is the cream of an idle jest,
          A smile on the face of sorrow.
        A sad peculiar figure at best;
            Willing to sacrifice every day,
            Breaking his heart in the hope of play
        On a problematical morrow.




                          A LETTER FROM HOME


        I’ve a letter from home to-day;
        A letter from home to say
        That they’re cutting the trees in the Priory Wood,
        That lambing is over and crops are good.
        Quite the usual thing, be it understood,
        Is my letter from home, to-day.

        I’ve a letter from home, to-day;
        A letter from far away,
        Bidding me ever to bear in mind
        The dear old friends I have left behind.
        But I’m not of the quickly forgetting kind,
        Dear letter from home, to-day!

        In my letter from home, to-day;
        Is a postscript, just to say
        “No doubt you’ll be very much grieved to hear
        That the girl who stayed at the Grange last year,
        Is dead, and was yesterday buried here.”
        And the world has ended, to-day.




                           THE EXPLANATION


                How do I know I love you?
                Why, because
                When you’re away, d’ye see,
                I kind o’ wanders lonesome like
                An’ frets,
                ’Cause you’re not there with me.
                An’ when I meet you by the stile
                At night,
                And not a soul to see,
                I scarce durst speak to you because
                You’re you, an’ I’m just me.




                              MEMORANDA


                In your Book of Memory,
                Set aside no page for me.
                Do not write our friendship there,
                But, if you’ve the time to spare,
                Scribble just this hurried line:
                “He was once a friend of mine.”

                Blot it very carefully,
                Turn the page that none may see.
                Life goes singing down the way
                Different ballads every day.
                Other pages open fair,
                Set new tales of friendship there.

                And the day will come maybe,
                When that hurried line of me;
                Seen by chance a moment’s space,
                Will recall a vanished face,
                And a memory sweeter than
                Many written pages can.




                      LOVE, LAUGHTER, AND AFTER


            The ruinous cottage, the broken latch;
            The cold stone floor and the dripping thatch.
            The ripe red lips of the girl who stands
            Holding her lover’s hands.

            The gay Casino, the fancy ball;
            The twinkling lights of the crowded hall.
            The cool sweet air of the terrace dim,
            Love and laughter and--him.

            The pitiful pageant that follows soon;
            The music hall and the cheap saloon.
            The sad procession, the coffee stall.
            The river that ends it all.




                             TH’ COORTIN’


                ’Tis just about a wik ago,
                  Or mebbe two, or theresabout,
                As I axed Kate why ur an’ Joe
                  Was seed together waalking out;
                Whenas, fur nigh upon a year,
                ’Twur I as had been coortin’ ur.

                “Why, laws-a-mussey, Bill,” ur sez,
                  “Fur certain sure ye must allow
                Us two caan’t alluz spend our days
                  The same as us be doin’ now.
                Ye’d better wed wi’ one ye doan’t
                Than waalk wi’ one ye do, as woan’t.”

                I cudden zackly understand
                  What ’twur as she was drivin’ at,
                Until I cotched ur by the hand
                  And took a peep ’erneath ur hat.
                Wur what I see surprised I so,
                  I gi’ed ur kiss, an’ whispered low:
                “Ye’d better wed the feller who
                Has alluz bin in luv wi’ you.”
                And that’s just what ur means to do.




                              AGREEMENT

                    Oyez! Oyez! Behold we state
                    The rules of this our Syndicate.


              Let it be granted first of all,
              That you are not so young and small
              As foolish people would suppose,
              From your long hair and shorter clothes.

              Item the second, please agree
              To just the opposite in me.
              For would the wisest man alive
              Imagine I was twenty-five?

              This done, folk cannot make a fuss,
              Or say that we’re preposterous.
              For you become, as all may see,
              A chaperone in charge of me.

              Thirdly, this reservation’s made,
              The Syndicate’s too old and staid
              To ride (though you’ll object no doubt)
              In swinging boat and roundabout.

              Fourthly, the world’s a dear old place,
              So always keep a smiling face.
              It suits you best, and as to that,
              So does pink chiffon in your hat.

              Lastly, lest envious folk combine
              To wreck your Syndicate, and mine,
              My autograph is here affixed,
              Written in blood and water mixed.

       _P.S._ It may not look like blood to you
              But recollect my blood is blue.




                             THE BURYIN’


                The mists be on the river bed,
                The roses all be gone;
                And here be I, about to die,
                Wi’ harvest coming on.
                Dear Lord, I’ve trapsed some weary miles,
                I’ll be main glad to rest awhiles.

                The folk’ll soon be in the fields,
                A-getting in the grain.
                For most of those, the time I’ve chose
                Be awkerd in the main.
                Though not so bad, ’tis sure, for they
                As be a-working by the day.

                September be a better month
                For all the carter men;
                And when I die don’t signify,
                So let I bide till then.
                The wagons’ll be standing by,
                And there’ll be time to bury I.




                          A ZONG TO ZING-OH!


            When the zun beyond the Beacon be a-zettin’
            And everything’s as quiet as can be,
            By the gate to varmur’s meddy,
            That old gate zo vurm and zteddy,
            You be pretty zure uv vindin’ Jim and me.

            When the mists along the valley be uprisin’
            And the nightingale’s a-zingin’ in the tree;
            When the peewits be a-zquawkin’
            Uz don’t waste no time a-talkin’
            Time’s a vasty zight too short sez Jim an’ me

            With the honeyzuckle zcent zo thick as treacle,
            And the chestnut blossoms droppin’ onto we;
            As us zets zo close together,
            Why zometimes I wonders whether
            Jim ull zet that close in Paradise to me.

            When the clocks down in the village be a-strikin’
            And darkness comes a-creepin’ up the lea,
            Then, though us be zeldom ready,
            Us must leave old varmur’s meddy,
            Or the volk ull all be wonderin’ where us be.




                                 SONG


            Long ago,
            (How long ago I really don’t know;)
            A kingfisher lived in a valley of green,
            The finest kingfisher that ever was seen--
            In that little green valley I know.

            Silent and slow
            All in a row, buttercups grow.
            One day the kingfisher selected his queen,
            And the bride wore a costume of purple and green
            ’Neath the willows that stand in a row.

            Heigho!
            (As the years go, still the streams flow)
            The whole of this summer they haven’t been seen,
            And a wood-pecker reigns in that valley serene.
            Where they’ve gone to I really don’t know.




                              PHILOSOPHY


                When I was young, in days gone by,
                I smoked Wild Woodbines on the sly.
                They made me ill, but what of that?
                ’Twas nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                If I had shirked that pallid brow
                I couldn’t smoke Havanas now.

                The only girl I ever kissed,
                Both found and left an optimist.
                She jilted me, but even that
                Was nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                I’ve such a cozy little den,
                And know a lot of married men.

                And now, although I’m getting stout,
                And though my hair is falling out,
                And people call me old and fat,
                There’s nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                Although I am a perfect fright,
                I don’t look bad by candle light.




                               FORFEITS


                You fail to catch the trencher spun
                And, later, when the game is done,
                The lady who collects the fees
                Demands a forfeit, if you please.
                You find a penny, grimed and black,
                And hope that you may get it back.

                You sit in speechless misery,
                And wonder what your fate will be,
                Until, within that giggling ring,
                You have to claim the wretched thing;
                Then sally forth upon your quest,
                To kiss the one you love the best.

                You don’t appreciate the fun,
                But curb a wild desire to run;
                Then seek a matron staid and stout,
                And drag the willing victim out;
                Because, of course, it wouldn’t do
                To kiss the girl you wanted to.




                             THE REVIVAL


            Take me away, for I will see no more;
            It was but yesterday I saw the play before,
            The day on which my dear and I were wed--
            Your mother, child--your mother who is dead.
            Why did you bring me here to see a play
            Which she and I saw only yesterday?




                         A PATRON OF THE ARTS


                    I knew a lady once I did,
                    Who lived away at Pontypridd;
                    She liked my verses very much,
                    And said I had the lyric touch.

                    She used to ask me round to lunch,
                    And say I ought to edit “Punch,”
                    As Owen S. and Francis B.,
                    Were amateurs compared to me.

                    Last week I met her in a batch
                    Of lunatics at Colney Hatch,
                    And heard she always spoke of me
                    As far surpassing Calverley.




                              CRITICISM


                A simple poet on a time,
                Resolved to write a simple rhyme.
                His verse was pleasing to the ear;
                He also made his meaning clear.

                The critics glanced at it, and said
                Such rubbish they had never read.
                A point on which they did agree,
                With touching unanimity.

                The simple poet took his lay,
                And turned it round the other way.
                Shuffled the sentences about,
                And took a dozen commas out.

                The critics took the volume, and
                Read, marked--and failed to understand.
                Then fell upon their stomachs flat,
                This prodigy to marvel at.




                           TREASON AND PLOT


                When I am very, very rich,
                  And very famous, too,
                I’ll take a cab to Regent’s Park,
                  And walk into the Zoo
                With quite a consequential air,
                For I shall be the richest there.

                And in a lordly way I’ll take
                  A shilling from my purse,
                And buy the biggest rattle-snake
                  To carry home to Nurse,
                And, as she’s very short of breath,
                Perhaps ’twill frighten her to death.




                        THE POPPY AND THE POET


                Like poppies in the golden corn,
                  The poet’s race is run;
                Each strives alike to gain the ear;
                  The poppy from the sun
                Borrows more radiance than gold--
                A poet’s much the same, I’m told.

                But still these differences appear
                  When everything is said;
                The poet’s leaves, I greatly fear,
                  Are very seldom read.
                Poppies but borrow from the sun--
                A poet will from anyone.




                              EL DORADO


                He sought it through the golden isles
                Of Once Upon a Time.
                In fabled fields of Might Have Been
                He heard its distant chime.
                He saw, mid Dreamland’s mystic glades,
                Its turrets from afar;
                And found it in the valley, where
                The deepest shadows are.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


The Project Gutenberg eBook of Colombine a fantasy
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Colombine a fantasy
        and other verses

Author: Reginald Arkell

Illustrator: Frederick Carter

Release date: June 19, 2025 [eBook #76341]

Language: English

Original publication: London: Benn and Cronin, Ltd, 1911

Credits: Carol Brown, Charlene Taylor and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***

Transcriber’s Note:

Words and phrases in italics are surrounded by underscores, _like
this_.

“ro” was changed to “to” ... desire to run ...




  COLOMBINE

  A FANTASY

  AND OTHER VERSES




  _LONDON_
  BENN AND CRONIN, LTD.
  CRAVEN HOUSE, KINGSWAY, W.C.
  1911




       _Copyright: Entered at Stationers’ Hall, December 1911.
                  Acting Rights strictly Reserved._




[Illustration: COLOMBINE.]




[Illustration:

  COLOMBINE
  A FANTASY

  BY REGINALD ARKELL

  WITH SOME DRAWINGS
  BY FREDERICK CARTER.]




[Illustration]




                            AUTHOR’S NOTE

“COLOMBINE” was first performed at Clavier Hall, Hanover Square, W.,
on Thursday, 7th December 1911, with the following cast:

    Dan’l (an old man)         MR. B. BUTLER.
    Nathan’l (a boy)           MR. A. E. FILMER.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Harlequin                  MR. REGINALD BACH.
    Pierrot                    MR. MARK HANNAM.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Colombine                  MISS ETHEL EVANS.

    The play was produced by MR. A. E. FILMER.


                                SCENE

  A ROMAN CAMP on the summit of Cissbury Beacon in the South Downs.
     A fairy ring occupies the foreground. All round are beech trees.
     The time is evening.




[Illustration]




                               PROLOGUE


    There are circles of green upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the Pharisees dance--so they say;
    Revelling merrily round it until
    The dawn over Ditchling is gray.
    And travellers lost upon Cissbury Hill--
    (Pixy-led folk who stray)
    Seated on toad-stools, with fairy folk sup,
    _But here, in Haymarket, the roadway is up_.

    There are circles of beech upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the leaves of a lifetime decay;
    Hiding the memories, lingering still,
    Of Rome’s indisputable sway.
    And under the beech-leaves of Cissbury Hill,
    Throbs the heart of the downland alway.
    While dreaming of chieftains and warriors in woad,
    _You’re lighting your pipe in the Charing Cross Road_.




[Illustration]




                              COLOMBINE


     _An old man and a boy are seen talking; both are labourers.
                 The old man, who is seated, speaks_:

      DAN’L. Well, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. There’s little use in stopping here much longer.

      NATHAN’L. Not as I can see.

      DAN’L. Like my old eyes, the sun don’t grow no stronger.

      NATHAN’L. And I wants my tea.

      DAN’L. Do ee, lad?

      NATHAN’L. Ah, main bad.

      DAN’L. Which means ’tis time to go, I reckons.

      NATHAN’L. That’s a proposition as I seconds.

      DAN’L. Come on then, let’s be moving. Tip us yer daddle.

      NATHAN’L. All of a sudden you be in a mortal caddle.
    I wants to hear the finish of that yarn
    As you was spinning down at Tranter’s Barn.
    A peck of troubles it was all about.
    I wants to know how everything turned out.

      DAN’L. You wants your tea, that’s what you wants, my son.

      NATHAN’L. There’s time enough for tea when you be done.

      DAN’L. Well, though ’tis little enough I read,
    I sid in a story-book years ago,
    (Though mind, Nathan’l, there beant no need
    To be letting on as I told ee so)
    That all the troubles as worrits a man
    Was locked in a box when the world began.

    And there no doubt they’d ha’ bid till now,
    If the dummel soul as had got the key,
    Hadn’t got mixed up with a maid somehow
    And gone and handed it over to she.
    And what do ee fancy the maiden did?
    Darn me, Nathan’l, ur lifted the lid.

[Illustration]

    And all they troubles come trooping out,
    Like hens from a chicken-run might have done.
    For the maiden fancied without a doubt,
    They’d go back in the evening like, one by one.
    But time’s got to settle a few more clocks,
    Afore they troubles goes back to their box.

    Straight, Nathan’l, ’tis near enough
    To make a methody parson swear.
    And every time as I reads such stuff,
    I goes so red as yon moon up there.
    To think of the trouble ur brought on we--
    I reckon I owes my old gal to she.

      NATHAN’L. Is it true, do ee think, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, mebbe not, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee think, Dan’l--she let out the lot?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe not.

      NATHAN’L. Sounds like a fairy story to me.

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe, mebbe.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee believe in fairies, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Can’t be sure as I do, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, I don’t anyway, and that’s a fact.

                          _Enter_ COLOMBINE.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l, be I dreaming or be I cracked?

      NATHAN’L. My goodness, Dan’l, I do believe as she’s a fairy....

      DAN’L. Here, come into the shadow of these trees,
    And give that clacking tongue of yourn a rest.

      NATHAN’L. Oh, this be more wonderful than all the things I ever
          guessed.

      DAN’L. And it means _summat_ that you _may_ depend.

      NATHAN’L. See, where she walks, the grass don’t even bend
    Beneath her feet. She be a fairy, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. I wish you’d hold your clacking tongue, Nathan’l.

                      [COLOMBINE, _hearing a noise, pauses to listen_.

      COLOMBINE. Who’s there? The daylight fades. I cannot see.

      DAN’L. You go.

      NATHAN’L.     No, you.

      DAN’L.                So please you, Miss, ’tis we.

      COLOMBINE. Good evening, Sirs.

      DAN’L.                Our best respects to ee.
    A goodish evening to be sure, but getting dark and cold.
    Time gals like you was safe abed, if I might make so bold.

      COLOMBINE. Old man, the night has but begun.

      DAN’L. The day be done.

      COLOMBINE. The moon has scarcely risen yet.

      DAN’L. The sun have set.

      COLOMBINE. The sun his wandering footsteps stays to greet the crescent moon.
    The nightjar and the nightingale will both be singing soon.

      DAN’L. Us don’t set much store by nightingales in these parts,
            and as for nightjars! Oh lor, us shoots they.
          Give I a linnet now,
          A-sitting on a bough;
          As sings his message to the sun,
          And goes to sleep when day be done,
          Respectable like!

      NATHAN’L. [_Coming forward._]
          Queer things,
          These here rings
          You sees in the grass
          When you pass.
          They say ’tis where Pharisees dances at night!
          Be that right?

      COLOMBINE. Quite right; yet once the circle that you see,
    Saw war and tumult.

      DAN’L.           Lawks-a-mussey me!

      COLOMBINE. The Roman legions camped on yonder brow,
    And built the road you stand on.

      NATHAN’L.                     Did they now!

      COLOMBINE. The sun would sink out yonder in the west,
    And shine upon their helmets.

      DAN’L.                      Well I’m blest!

      COLOMBINE. The very spot where Julius Caesar sat,
    Lies just behind those beeches.

      NATHAN’L.                    Think of that!

      COLOMBINE. In yonder barrow treasures rare lie hid.
    Dig deep to find them.

      DAN’L.               Well I never did!

      NATHAN’L. But when did all this
                Happen, Miss?
                How many years ago,
                I’d like to know?

      COLOMBINE. Roughly two thousand, on this very spot.

      DAN’L. Lor! What a memory you must have got.

      COLOMBINE. [_To_ NATHAN’L.] But tell me please;
    Beneath these trees,
    What travellers come, and whither bound?
    Do still these ancient heights resound
    With martial music and the tramp of men?

      NATHAN’L. Us gets a hurdy-gurdy now and then,
    And once a clown on stilts went through the wood;
    And oh! he could catch pennies, that he could.

      COLOMBINE. But in what fashion do you pass your days?

      NATHAN’L. I kill the time in various sorts of ways.
    Scaring the rooks as settles on the corn;
    Helping the shepherd when the lambs be born.
    Talking to Dan’l about these here rings,
    And wondering about a power of things.
    As don’t concern nobody, I suppose.
    But then, you must do summat, goodness knows.

      COLOMBINE. Of course. ’Tis lonely here without a doubt.
    What are the things you’re wondering about
    To-day?

[Illustration]

      NATHAN’L. Such things as surely never was.
    Such things as surely no one ever does.
    And yet, of nothing, for they moves so fast,
    You finds as you’ve forgotten them at last.
    Just like a dream they passes and be gone.
    Just like a dream they passes....

      COLOMBINE.                      Yes, go on.

      NATHAN’L. Just like a dream, for though I thinks a lot,
    Before they’re rightly thought they’re clean forgot.
    Though somehow, now I sits and talks to you,
    I keeps remembering things I never knew.
    Just like as though somebody slammed a door,
    When you was going where you’d been before;
    Leaving you standing on the further side,
    Wondering at what was happening inside.
    Whether the folk you knew was there or not;
    Whether you really knew, and had forgot;
    Whether you’d been there once when you was small,
    Or whether you was never there at all.
    ’Tis plaguey awkerd, wondering, that it be.
    And now I must be off, I wants my tea.                    [_Exit._

      COLOMBINE. Good-bye. And think sometimes of me.

                           [_Rousing herself from the brown study into
                             which this revelation has thrown her, and
                             addressing_ DAN’L.

    Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. [_Startled._] Eh?

      COLOMBINE. Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. It all depends. Why?

      COLOMBINE. There’s going to be a fight.

      DAN’L. When? Where?

      COLOMBINE. Very soon.
             By the light of the moon.
             On the very stroke of nine.
             All for love of Colombine.

      DAN’L. Shall I fetch a policeman?

      COLOMBINE. A policeman! Dear me, no.

      DAN’L. Who’s going to fight.

      COLOMBINE. Don’t you know?
                             Harlequin and Pierrot.

      DAN’L. Never heard of they.

      COLOMBINE. Won’t it be fun?

      DAN’L. Good fun
                      For the one as gets killed.

      COLOMBINE. But they won’t kill each other. They never do. They’re
    _most_ dependable.

      DAN’L. Have um fought before?

      COLOMBINE. Of course. Hundreds of times.

      DAN’L. Silly young chaps.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. They’re not silly. They’re fighting for me. Don’t you
    understand?

      DAN’L. I fought about a girl once. But only once. It was a long
    time ago.

      COLOMBINE. You’re not romantic. Romance would die if it wasn’t
    for fighting. Romance _is_ fighting.

      DAN’L. Then I’ve had quite enough romance to please me.

      COLOMBINE. All properly constituted love affairs should include
    a fight. Love without fighting is insipid.

      DAN’L. _You_ don’t have to do the fighting. Which of ’em loves
    you the most?

      COLOMBINE. Why, Pierrot, of course.

      DAN’L. Then why don’t you marry him?

      COLOMBINE. And disappoint Harlequin? I couldn’t do that.

      DAN’L. When are you going to decide?

      COLOMBINE. I don’t know. [_On her fingers._] This year, next
    year, some time, never. To-night perhaps.

      DAN’L. One day they’ll get tired of fighting. What then?

      COLOMBINE. Never!

      DAN’L. You’re sure of that?

      COLOMBINE. Oh, yes. Quite sure.

      DAN’L. One of them may get killed.

      COLOMBINE. They wouldn’t be so careless.

      DAN’L. What should you do if one of ’em got killed by accident?

      COLOMBINE. I should be very angry. But you’re very horrid to
    suggest such things. Why don’t you go away?

      DAN’L. Good-bye.

      COLOMBINE. No, stay.

      DAN’L. Well, I’m fond of a fight, I must say.

      COLOMBINE. Hush! They are coming. Quick, behind this tree.

      DAN’L. Anywhere in the background’s good enough for me.

      COLOMBINE. A fight, a fight! And all for love of me.

                    [_The orchestra plays quietly the Soldiers’ Chorus
                        and snatches of other martial refrains. The
                        two watchers betray tense excitement._
                        HARLEQUIN _and_ PIERROT _enter arm in arm.
                        Any differences they may have had are evidently
                        settled._ COLOMBINE _looks on in astonishment_.

[Illustration]

      HARLEQUIN. Mind you, as girls go, Colombine’s one of the best.

      PIERROT. Ah yes.

      HARLEQUIN. But nothing to fight about.

      PIERROT. [_Without conviction._] No.

      HARLEQUIN. And fighting’s going out of fashion. There’s no doubt
    about that.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. The whole trend of modern thought is opposed to it.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. None of the best people do it.

      PIERROT. I suppose not.

      HARLEQUIN. And one must be in the movement.

      PIERROT. Of course.

      HARLEQUIN. Arbitration’s the thing nowadays.

      PIERROT. What’s that?

      HARLEQUIN. Why, you each talk until you’re out of breath, and
    the one with most breath wins.

      PIERROT. [_Taking a deep breath._] That seems a good idea.

      HARLEQUIN. It is.

      PIERROT. But what will Colombine say if we don’t fight? She loves
    to watch us fight.

      HARLEQUIN. My dear chap, we must be firm. Adopt your point of
    view, and stick to it in the face of all opposition.

      COLOMBINE. [_Advancing._] Aren’t you going to fight?

      PIERROT. [_Kindly._] Not to-night.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! Why not?

      HARLEQUIN. Well, we’ve got
                 Other fish to fry,
                 That’s why.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! do fight!

      PIERROT. Not to-night.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, my dear girl, do listen to reason. You will admit,
    I suppose, that the most elementary point about a duel is to spit
    your opponent through the gizzard.

      COLOMBINE. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. Well, I haven’t got a gizzard, and what’s the use of
    trying to spit a man’s gizzard, if he hasn’t got a gizzard to spit?
    You must be reasonable.

      COLOMBINE. How do you know you haven’t got a gizzard?

      HARLEQUIN. We don’t know for certain, we assume.

      PIERROT. You’ve only to look at him to see there isn’t room.

      COLOMBINE. But why the gizzard? What does it matter _where_ you
    spit him so long as you do spit him?

      HARLEQUIN. For heaven’s sake, my dear girl, don’t preach such
    revolutionary doctrines. There is a certain etiquette to be
    observed, even in a battle.

      COLOMBINE. [_After a pause._] But it’s quite simple. You spit
    Pierrot. He’s got a gizzard, I suppose.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. Pierrot consulted a phrenologist....

      PIERROT. Soothsayer!

      HARLEQUIN. Sorry--soothsayer, who said he was born to be hung....

      PIERROT. Hanged!

      HARLEQUIN. Hanged, and so of course, he doesn’t want to run the
    risk of disappointing him.

      COLOMBINE. Very considerate, I’m sure.
    I think you’re absolutely _horrid_, there.               [_Cries._

      HARLEQUIN. [_To_ PIERROT.] Don’t waver, both together.

      HARLEQUIN and PIERROT. We don’t care
          Tuppence what you think or say,
          We talked the matter over, here to-day;
          And arbitration is the only way.

      COLOMBINE. You’re frightened.

      HARLEQUIN. Don’t be silly. Frightened! Me!

      COLOMBINE. Well, who’s your arbitrator going to be?

      HARLEQUIN. [_Taken aback._] Why yes, we must have someone, I
        suppose.
    But who’s to do it?

      PIERROT.          Goodness only knows!
    There’s not a single person within call.

    COLOMBINE. [_Clapping her hands._] Hurrah! You’ll have to fight,
      then, after all.

                       [_There is a pause, during which_ PIERROT _and_
                       HARLEQUIN _look at each other in dismay_.
                       COLOMBINE _on the other hand claps her
                       hands and pirouettes round the stage. Then_
                       HARLEQUIN _sees_ DAN’L _and drags him forward
                       at the same time speaking in asides_.

      HARLEQUIN. What’s your name?

      DAN’L. Much the same
            As it’s always bin,
            Week out, week in,
            This seventy year and more.

      HARLEQUIN. Good! We want you to arbitrate.
    You’re the very man.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey. I’ll do it if I can.

      HARLEQUIN. There’s much gold.
               Wealth untold!
               If you only do
               As I tell you to.

      DAN’L. Fire away!

      HARLEQUIN. Until to-day, Pierrot and I have been in the habit of
    engaging in mortal combat for the hand of Colombine. Owing to the
    fact that up to the present neither has had the decency to get
    killed, and as a result of the wave of anti-militarism that has
    swept over the country, we have decided to fall back on arbitration.
    And you are the arbitrator. You understand?

      DAN’L. No!

      HARLEQUIN. Then you’re very thick.

      DAN’L. You speaks too quick
    And the way you keeps hopping about makes me fair mazed.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. One of us is to marry
    Colombine, and you’ve to decide which it’s to be.
    Do you see?

      DAN’L. No.

      HARLEQUIN. But it’s quite simple.

      DAN’L. Maybe. But how do I know which it’s to be?

      HARLEQUIN. I’ll let you into a secret. It’s me!

      DAN’L. Oh! And if I goes and sez ’tis you,
    What’s yon chap in the white trousers going to do?

      HARLEQUIN. Never mind him. He’s a fool.

      DAN’L. It seems it don’t much matter what I say;
    I’m bound to upset one of ye either way.
    Oh! very well.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Pierrot! Gather round.

                        [_They sit in a semicircle_; COLOMBINE _and_
                          DAN’L _in the centre_.

      DAN’L. I shall catch my death of cold, sitting on this damp
    ground.

                        [_There is silence, each waiting for the other
                          to speak._

      COLOMBINE. You don’t seem very anxious, either of you.

      DAN’L. Who goes first?

      HARLEQUIN. If I don’t say something, and quickly, I shall burst.

      DAN’L. Then you’d best get started. [_Aside._] How long will it take?

      HARLEQUIN. Until it’s ended.

      DAN’L. Cut it short for goodness’ sake.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Let me take you away from these lonely hills.
    Into the heart of the world where lies the Land of Yesterday. There
    are stored all the happy hours that you have known. You shall live
    them all over again, Colombine--every one. I will lead you by secret
    paths, through the dim woods of yesternight until we stand together
    in the sunlight of the days that have been. Walking backward through
    the years, we will collect those dear lost delights, of which only
    the memory remains. From all that has gone before, it shall be yours
    to pick and choose, and no To-morrow shall throw its ominous shade
    before. The past shall deliver up its treasures to your hand; regrets
    shall be ended, and happiness shall be sure. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. No, Harlequin. The road to your Land of Yesterday is
    longer than you know, and there is no going back. Let us still take
    from the past our memories and our dreams, but do not ask for more,
    lest even these be denied.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: THE GATEWAY OF HAPPINESS]

      HARLEQUIN. As you will. Then it is to the future that we must
    turn. Colombine, far from here, set in a desert of hot sand, is a
    crystal, so large, that all the giants of Africa could not stir
    it the thickness of a hair. Peering into its depths, you may read
    your future to the end of time. A day, a week, a year, shall be no
    barrier to the vision of the mind. You may read all the riddles of
    the universe, and there will remain nothing that you do not know. You
    shall see your face as it will be when twice twenty harvest moons
    have waned, and fifty summer suns have set. And I, alone, can point
    you the way. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. You promise much, Harlequin. It may well be that in some
    spot remote from the haunts of men, the Mirror of Fate yet lies hid.
    And you may find it. Who knows! But this, at least, is certain; the
    path will be difficult and the journey long. Would you not tire by
    the way, Harlequin? I think you would. [_Pause._] And, it is not in
    distant deserts I would seek. In the woods of home, hearts may thrill
    to the eloquent silences of the night. [HARLEQUIN _rises_.] All the
    secrets of the world might be ours, did we but care to learn the
    simple language of the nightingale. Across the moonlight, the shadows
    of the branches trace unforgettable things. Great secrets tremble on
    the lips of the leaves, and mortals grope vainly in the daylight for
    things seen most plainly in the dark.

      DAN’L. [_Coughing to draw attention to himself._]
    I’ve allus noticed, in whatever parts I med ha’ bin,
    A maid in love have allus got a fairish yarn to spin.
    And in whatever parts I’ve bin, I’ve allus noticed too,
    The foolish lads do take it all for gospel, that um do.
    But though I’ve kept good notice in whatever parts I was,
    I’ve never heard a maid to spin a yarn like this un does.
    Ur be a marvel, that ur be; I hope as ur won’t try
    When ur’s tired of you two fellows here, to spin no yarns to I;
    For fools be mostly biggest fools when um be old and grey.
    And if I went along o’ she, what _ud_ my missus say.
    Next man?

      COLOMBINE. Come, Pierrot!

      PIERROT. [_With an effort._] Colombine!

      COLOMBINE. Yes, Pierrot.

      HARLEQUIN. Go on!

      DAN’L. Let’s hear what you’ve got to say, young fellow.

      PIERROT. There is nothing to say.

      COLOMBINE. Nothing to say!

      PIERROT. Save that I love you, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. And is that so small a thing, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. But I have nothing to offer you, nothing.

      COLOMBINE. [_Softly._] Save yourself.

      HARLEQUIN. I have always said that Pierrot was master of sounding
    silences. The sweetest singer of unsung songs, his eloquent nothings
    go shrieking through the void. He scorns to desecrate the virgin
    purity of his foolscap with the written word. What love is that which
    dare not tell its love? Come, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. See, Harlequin, here is a beech nut. You shake it, yet
    there is no sound. Is it full? Is it empty?

      HARLEQUIN. Who can say?

      DAN’L. Likewise, young Nathan’l he picks up a match-box last week,
    and throws it away because there was no sound when he rattles en
    [_To_ HARLEQUIN.] And what do you think?

      HARLEQUIN. I couldn’t say.

      DAN’L. It was so full all the time as not to rattle at all.

      HARLEQUIN. [_Scornfully._] Matches! ye gods! Let’s talk of cucumbers,
    Or shame the glory of this summer night
    With tales of warming-pans.
    Has no one here a button-hook,
    With which to probe the vast unsounded deeps
    [_To_ DAN’L.] Of thy poor addled brain.
    It yet may be,
    In some uncharted corner of the void
    That passes for thy mind,
    We find a collar-stud.
    Farewell!                                                 [_Exit._

      DAN’L. Well, he won’t come back again, that I will be bound,
    And as I be catching my death of cold, sitting on this damp ground,
    I’d best be moving. [_Rises._] Ugh! Good-night to ee.

      PIERROT. Good-night!

      COLOMBINE. [_Aside to_ DAN’L.] And, Mr. Arbitrator, if you see
    Your friend Nathan’l, say that Pierrot
    Owes more to him than he will ever know. [_Exit_ DAN’L.

      COLOMBINE. They have gone!

      PIERROT. Ah!

      COLOMBINE. And the night draws on.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      COLOMBINE. You are sad. Why are you sad, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. I cannot tell.

      COLOMBINE. And you are cold. Is it the night air?

      PIERROT. The wind-swept wold
    Is a street of gold,
    So my lady be walking there.

      COLOMBINE. Yet you are sad. See, they have gone and will not
    come again.

      PIERROT. So love may vanish too,
    And of his chain no link remain
    To tell the way he flew.

      COLOMBINE. Love, as the skylark, soars into that Heaven where’t
    fain would be.

      PIERROT. And singing still, returns. Time was when you, with
    Harlequin, would revel till the cold grey dawn came in.

      COLOMBINE. Light loves sometime were pleasant, but to-night the
    face of love seems changed. No more will stray this wandering heart
    of mine.

      PIERROT. Are you not sorry, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. Sorry for what, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. For loss of Harlequin.

      COLOMBINE. Harlequin is very clever but he talks of what he does
    not know, and promises what is not his to give. Cleverness is not
    everything, Pierrot. The mind is like a garden full of flowers, but
        The heart is a little house,
        With windows facing southerly;
        By which a pathway winds.
        And there, behind the blinds,
        We sit and wait,
        Watching, waiting for what?
        We know not.

    The garden is a pleasant place in summer, but when it is winter, we
    seek the fireside of the little house.

      PIERROT. Yet you are fond of gardens and pretty flowers, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. What flowers grow
          In your garden, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. My garden is full of the flowers,
          My mother planted for me;
          Curious, old-world flowers,
          Thyme, lavender, rosemary.
          Planted in days gone by.
          And, though no gardener I,
          As the shadows fall, I tend them all;
          Watering, pruning there.
          Am I happy in my lot?
          I know not.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. And there is the little house, Pierrot.

      PIERROT. Ah, yes there is the little house.
          Do you remember when
          You peeped through the pane, and then
          Went on your way again?
          Out of my sight, although,
          I beckoned you as you passed,
          And sat at my window mournfully.
          But you came again at last.
          And, seeing you come, I said;
          “The flowers in my garden are dead,
          So will she have no more of me.”

    COLOMBINE. I am knocking at the door, Pierrot.
          Knocking and waiting there,
          For the sound of a step on the stair.
          Will you open to me, Pierrot?

                                [PIERROT’S _answer may be taken in the
                                  affirmative. As they sit together, it
                                  grows dark._

[Illustration]

      PIERROT. [_Rising._] Come dear, and let us go,
    Together, hand in hand,
    Into that sun-lit land,
    Where life and love are things inseparable.
    Where, beneath cloudless skies,
    The happy are the wise,
    And none reprove the glory of a love they may not understand.

                                                     [_Exit together._
                          [_It becomes quite dark_: DAN’L _and an_ OLD
                            MAN _pass slowly across the stage, carrying
                            lanterns, and peering cautiously into the
                            blackness of the night_.

      THE OLD MAN. You was dreaming, Dan’l. That’s about the size of it.

      DAN’L. And I tells ee I wur as wide awake as you be. Us had been
    sitting over-long by the clump, and all of a sudden I looks up and
    sees a fairy. “Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l,” I sez, “be I dreaming or
    be I cracked?”

                              [_They pass off, and the curtain falls._


                                FINIS

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                             OTHER VERSES




                            THE MARIONETTE


        Man is merely a marionette
          On invisible wires suspended.
        And it’s just as well he shouldn’t forget
            That Fate the showman is in the wings,
            Working the business and pulling the strings
        Till his turn is over and ended.

        Man is merely a figure on strings,
          By the glare of the footlights blinded.
        And the wonderful way he dances and sings
            Is not unlikely to fill his mind
            With a great contempt for the Power behind,
        Till suddenly he’s reminded.

        Man is the cream of an idle jest,
          A smile on the face of sorrow.
        A sad peculiar figure at best;
            Willing to sacrifice every day,
            Breaking his heart in the hope of play
        On a problematical morrow.




                          A LETTER FROM HOME


        I’ve a letter from home to-day;
        A letter from home to say
        That they’re cutting the trees in the Priory Wood,
        That lambing is over and crops are good.
        Quite the usual thing, be it understood,
        Is my letter from home, to-day.

        I’ve a letter from home, to-day;
        A letter from far away,
        Bidding me ever to bear in mind
        The dear old friends I have left behind.
        But I’m not of the quickly forgetting kind,
        Dear letter from home, to-day!

        In my letter from home, to-day;
        Is a postscript, just to say
        “No doubt you’ll be very much grieved to hear
        That the girl who stayed at the Grange last year,
        Is dead, and was yesterday buried here.”
        And the world has ended, to-day.




                           THE EXPLANATION


                How do I know I love you?
                Why, because
                When you’re away, d’ye see,
                I kind o’ wanders lonesome like
                An’ frets,
                ’Cause you’re not there with me.
                An’ when I meet you by the stile
                At night,
                And not a soul to see,
                I scarce durst speak to you because
                You’re you, an’ I’m just me.




                              MEMORANDA


                In your Book of Memory,
                Set aside no page for me.
                Do not write our friendship there,
                But, if you’ve the time to spare,
                Scribble just this hurried line:
                “He was once a friend of mine.”

                Blot it very carefully,
                Turn the page that none may see.
                Life goes singing down the way
                Different ballads every day.
                Other pages open fair,
                Set new tales of friendship there.

                And the day will come maybe,
                When that hurried line of me;
                Seen by chance a moment’s space,
                Will recall a vanished face,
                And a memory sweeter than
                Many written pages can.




                      LOVE, LAUGHTER, AND AFTER


            The ruinous cottage, the broken latch;
            The cold stone floor and the dripping thatch.
            The ripe red lips of the girl who stands
            Holding her lover’s hands.

            The gay Casino, the fancy ball;
            The twinkling lights of the crowded hall.
            The cool sweet air of the terrace dim,
            Love and laughter and--him.

            The pitiful pageant that follows soon;
            The music hall and the cheap saloon.
            The sad procession, the coffee stall.
            The river that ends it all.




                             TH’ COORTIN’


                ’Tis just about a wik ago,
                  Or mebbe two, or theresabout,
                As I axed Kate why ur an’ Joe
                  Was seed together waalking out;
                Whenas, fur nigh upon a year,
                ’Twur I as had been coortin’ ur.

                “Why, laws-a-mussey, Bill,” ur sez,
                  “Fur certain sure ye must allow
                Us two caan’t alluz spend our days
                  The same as us be doin’ now.
                Ye’d better wed wi’ one ye doan’t
                Than waalk wi’ one ye do, as woan’t.”

                I cudden zackly understand
                  What ’twur as she was drivin’ at,
                Until I cotched ur by the hand
                  And took a peep ’erneath ur hat.
                Wur what I see surprised I so,
                  I gi’ed ur kiss, an’ whispered low:
                “Ye’d better wed the feller who
                Has alluz bin in luv wi’ you.”
                And that’s just what ur means to do.




                              AGREEMENT

                    Oyez! Oyez! Behold we state
                    The rules of this our Syndicate.


              Let it be granted first of all,
              That you are not so young and small
              As foolish people would suppose,
              From your long hair and shorter clothes.

              Item the second, please agree
              To just the opposite in me.
              For would the wisest man alive
              Imagine I was twenty-five?

              This done, folk cannot make a fuss,
              Or say that we’re preposterous.
              For you become, as all may see,
              A chaperone in charge of me.

              Thirdly, this reservation’s made,
              The Syndicate’s too old and staid
              To ride (though you’ll object no doubt)
              In swinging boat and roundabout.

              Fourthly, the world’s a dear old place,
              So always keep a smiling face.
              It suits you best, and as to that,
              So does pink chiffon in your hat.

              Lastly, lest envious folk combine
              To wreck your Syndicate, and mine,
              My autograph is here affixed,
              Written in blood and water mixed.

       _P.S._ It may not look like blood to you
              But recollect my blood is blue.




                             THE BURYIN’


                The mists be on the river bed,
                The roses all be gone;
                And here be I, about to die,
                Wi’ harvest coming on.
                Dear Lord, I’ve trapsed some weary miles,
                I’ll be main glad to rest awhiles.

                The folk’ll soon be in the fields,
                A-getting in the grain.
                For most of those, the time I’ve chose
                Be awkerd in the main.
                Though not so bad, ’tis sure, for they
                As be a-working by the day.

                September be a better month
                For all the carter men;
                And when I die don’t signify,
                So let I bide till then.
                The wagons’ll be standing by,
                And there’ll be time to bury I.




                          A ZONG TO ZING-OH!


            When the zun beyond the Beacon be a-zettin’
            And everything’s as quiet as can be,
            By the gate to varmur’s meddy,
            That old gate zo vurm and zteddy,
            You be pretty zure uv vindin’ Jim and me.

            When the mists along the valley be uprisin’
            And the nightingale’s a-zingin’ in the tree;
            When the peewits be a-zquawkin’
            Uz don’t waste no time a-talkin’
            Time’s a vasty zight too short sez Jim an’ me

            With the honeyzuckle zcent zo thick as treacle,
            And the chestnut blossoms droppin’ onto we;
            As us zets zo close together,
            Why zometimes I wonders whether
            Jim ull zet that close in Paradise to me.

            When the clocks down in the village be a-strikin’
            And darkness comes a-creepin’ up the lea,
            Then, though us be zeldom ready,
            Us must leave old varmur’s meddy,
            Or the volk ull all be wonderin’ where us be.




                                 SONG


            Long ago,
            (How long ago I really don’t know;)
            A kingfisher lived in a valley of green,
            The finest kingfisher that ever was seen--
            In that little green valley I know.

            Silent and slow
            All in a row, buttercups grow.
            One day the kingfisher selected his queen,
            And the bride wore a costume of purple and green
            ’Neath the willows that stand in a row.

            Heigho!
            (As the years go, still the streams flow)
            The whole of this summer they haven’t been seen,
            And a wood-pecker reigns in that valley serene.
            Where they’ve gone to I really don’t know.




                              PHILOSOPHY


                When I was young, in days gone by,
                I smoked Wild Woodbines on the sly.
                They made me ill, but what of that?
                ’Twas nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                If I had shirked that pallid brow
                I couldn’t smoke Havanas now.

                The only girl I ever kissed,
                Both found and left an optimist.
                She jilted me, but even that
                Was nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                I’ve such a cozy little den,
                And know a lot of married men.

                And now, although I’m getting stout,
                And though my hair is falling out,
                And people call me old and fat,
                There’s nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                Although I am a perfect fright,
                I don’t look bad by candle light.




                               FORFEITS


                You fail to catch the trencher spun
                And, later, when the game is done,
                The lady who collects the fees
                Demands a forfeit, if you please.
                You find a penny, grimed and black,
                And hope that you may get it back.

                You sit in speechless misery,
                And wonder what your fate will be,
                Until, within that giggling ring,
                You have to claim the wretched thing;
                Then sally forth upon your quest,
                To kiss the one you love the best.

                You don’t appreciate the fun,
                But curb a wild desire to run;
                Then seek a matron staid and stout,
                And drag the willing victim out;
                Because, of course, it wouldn’t do
                To kiss the girl you wanted to.




                             THE REVIVAL


            Take me away, for I will see no more;
            It was but yesterday I saw the play before,
            The day on which my dear and I were wed--
            Your mother, child--your mother who is dead.
            Why did you bring me here to see a play
            Which she and I saw only yesterday?




                         A PATRON OF THE ARTS


                    I knew a lady once I did,
                    Who lived away at Pontypridd;
                    She liked my verses very much,
                    And said I had the lyric touch.

                    She used to ask me round to lunch,
                    And say I ought to edit “Punch,”
                    As Owen S. and Francis B.,
                    Were amateurs compared to me.

                    Last week I met her in a batch
                    Of lunatics at Colney Hatch,
                    And heard she always spoke of me
                    As far surpassing Calverley.




                              CRITICISM


                A simple poet on a time,
                Resolved to write a simple rhyme.
                His verse was pleasing to the ear;
                He also made his meaning clear.

                The critics glanced at it, and said
                Such rubbish they had never read.
                A point on which they did agree,
                With touching unanimity.

                The simple poet took his lay,
                And turned it round the other way.
                Shuffled the sentences about,
                And took a dozen commas out.

                The critics took the volume, and
                Read, marked--and failed to understand.
                Then fell upon their stomachs flat,
                This prodigy to marvel at.




                           TREASON AND PLOT


                When I am very, very rich,
                  And very famous, too,
                I’ll take a cab to Regent’s Park,
                  And walk into the Zoo
                With quite a consequential air,
                For I shall be the richest there.

                And in a lordly way I’ll take
                  A shilling from my purse,
                And buy the biggest rattle-snake
                  To carry home to Nurse,
                And, as she’s very short of breath,
                Perhaps ’twill frighten her to death.




                        THE POPPY AND THE POET


                Like poppies in the golden corn,
                  The poet’s race is run;
                Each strives alike to gain the ear;
                  The poppy from the sun
                Borrows more radiance than gold--
                A poet’s much the same, I’m told.

                But still these differences appear
                  When everything is said;
                The poet’s leaves, I greatly fear,
                  Are very seldom read.
                Poppies but borrow from the sun--
                A poet will from anyone.




                              EL DORADO


                He sought it through the golden isles
                Of Once Upon a Time.
                In fabled fields of Might Have Been
                He heard its distant chime.
                He saw, mid Dreamland’s mystic glades,
                Its turrets from afar;
                And found it in the valley, where
                The deepest shadows are.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


The Project Gutenberg eBook of Colombine a fantasy
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Colombine a fantasy
        and other verses

Author: Reginald Arkell

Illustrator: Frederick Carter

Release date: June 19, 2025 [eBook #76341]

Language: English

Original publication: London: Benn and Cronin, Ltd, 1911

Credits: Carol Brown, Charlene Taylor and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***

Transcriber’s Note:

Words and phrases in italics are surrounded by underscores, _like
this_.

“ro” was changed to “to” ... desire to run ...




  COLOMBINE

  A FANTASY

  AND OTHER VERSES




  _LONDON_
  BENN AND CRONIN, LTD.
  CRAVEN HOUSE, KINGSWAY, W.C.
  1911




       _Copyright: Entered at Stationers’ Hall, December 1911.
                  Acting Rights strictly Reserved._




[Illustration: COLOMBINE.]




[Illustration:

  COLOMBINE
  A FANTASY

  BY REGINALD ARKELL

  WITH SOME DRAWINGS
  BY FREDERICK CARTER.]




[Illustration]




                            AUTHOR’S NOTE

“COLOMBINE” was first performed at Clavier Hall, Hanover Square, W.,
on Thursday, 7th December 1911, with the following cast:

    Dan’l (an old man)         MR. B. BUTLER.
    Nathan’l (a boy)           MR. A. E. FILMER.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Harlequin                  MR. REGINALD BACH.
    Pierrot                    MR. MARK HANNAM.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Colombine                  MISS ETHEL EVANS.

    The play was produced by MR. A. E. FILMER.


                                SCENE

  A ROMAN CAMP on the summit of Cissbury Beacon in the South Downs.
     A fairy ring occupies the foreground. All round are beech trees.
     The time is evening.




[Illustration]




                               PROLOGUE


    There are circles of green upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the Pharisees dance--so they say;
    Revelling merrily round it until
    The dawn over Ditchling is gray.
    And travellers lost upon Cissbury Hill--
    (Pixy-led folk who stray)
    Seated on toad-stools, with fairy folk sup,
    _But here, in Haymarket, the roadway is up_.

    There are circles of beech upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the leaves of a lifetime decay;
    Hiding the memories, lingering still,
    Of Rome’s indisputable sway.
    And under the beech-leaves of Cissbury Hill,
    Throbs the heart of the downland alway.
    While dreaming of chieftains and warriors in woad,
    _You’re lighting your pipe in the Charing Cross Road_.




[Illustration]




                              COLOMBINE


     _An old man and a boy are seen talking; both are labourers.
                 The old man, who is seated, speaks_:

      DAN’L. Well, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. There’s little use in stopping here much longer.

      NATHAN’L. Not as I can see.

      DAN’L. Like my old eyes, the sun don’t grow no stronger.

      NATHAN’L. And I wants my tea.

      DAN’L. Do ee, lad?

      NATHAN’L. Ah, main bad.

      DAN’L. Which means ’tis time to go, I reckons.

      NATHAN’L. That’s a proposition as I seconds.

      DAN’L. Come on then, let’s be moving. Tip us yer daddle.

      NATHAN’L. All of a sudden you be in a mortal caddle.
    I wants to hear the finish of that yarn
    As you was spinning down at Tranter’s Barn.
    A peck of troubles it was all about.
    I wants to know how everything turned out.

      DAN’L. You wants your tea, that’s what you wants, my son.

      NATHAN’L. There’s time enough for tea when you be done.

      DAN’L. Well, though ’tis little enough I read,
    I sid in a story-book years ago,
    (Though mind, Nathan’l, there beant no need
    To be letting on as I told ee so)
    That all the troubles as worrits a man
    Was locked in a box when the world began.

    And there no doubt they’d ha’ bid till now,
    If the dummel soul as had got the key,
    Hadn’t got mixed up with a maid somehow
    And gone and handed it over to she.
    And what do ee fancy the maiden did?
    Darn me, Nathan’l, ur lifted the lid.

[Illustration]

    And all they troubles come trooping out,
    Like hens from a chicken-run might have done.
    For the maiden fancied without a doubt,
    They’d go back in the evening like, one by one.
    But time’s got to settle a few more clocks,
    Afore they troubles goes back to their box.

    Straight, Nathan’l, ’tis near enough
    To make a methody parson swear.
    And every time as I reads such stuff,
    I goes so red as yon moon up there.
    To think of the trouble ur brought on we--
    I reckon I owes my old gal to she.

      NATHAN’L. Is it true, do ee think, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, mebbe not, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee think, Dan’l--she let out the lot?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe not.

      NATHAN’L. Sounds like a fairy story to me.

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe, mebbe.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee believe in fairies, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Can’t be sure as I do, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, I don’t anyway, and that’s a fact.

                          _Enter_ COLOMBINE.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l, be I dreaming or be I cracked?

      NATHAN’L. My goodness, Dan’l, I do believe as she’s a fairy....

      DAN’L. Here, come into the shadow of these trees,
    And give that clacking tongue of yourn a rest.

      NATHAN’L. Oh, this be more wonderful than all the things I ever
          guessed.

      DAN’L. And it means _summat_ that you _may_ depend.

      NATHAN’L. See, where she walks, the grass don’t even bend
    Beneath her feet. She be a fairy, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. I wish you’d hold your clacking tongue, Nathan’l.

                      [COLOMBINE, _hearing a noise, pauses to listen_.

      COLOMBINE. Who’s there? The daylight fades. I cannot see.

      DAN’L. You go.

      NATHAN’L.     No, you.

      DAN’L.                So please you, Miss, ’tis we.

      COLOMBINE. Good evening, Sirs.

      DAN’L.                Our best respects to ee.
    A goodish evening to be sure, but getting dark and cold.
    Time gals like you was safe abed, if I might make so bold.

      COLOMBINE. Old man, the night has but begun.

      DAN’L. The day be done.

      COLOMBINE. The moon has scarcely risen yet.

      DAN’L. The sun have set.

      COLOMBINE. The sun his wandering footsteps stays to greet the crescent moon.
    The nightjar and the nightingale will both be singing soon.

      DAN’L. Us don’t set much store by nightingales in these parts,
            and as for nightjars! Oh lor, us shoots they.
          Give I a linnet now,
          A-sitting on a bough;
          As sings his message to the sun,
          And goes to sleep when day be done,
          Respectable like!

      NATHAN’L. [_Coming forward._]
          Queer things,
          These here rings
          You sees in the grass
          When you pass.
          They say ’tis where Pharisees dances at night!
          Be that right?

      COLOMBINE. Quite right; yet once the circle that you see,
    Saw war and tumult.

      DAN’L.           Lawks-a-mussey me!

      COLOMBINE. The Roman legions camped on yonder brow,
    And built the road you stand on.

      NATHAN’L.                     Did they now!

      COLOMBINE. The sun would sink out yonder in the west,
    And shine upon their helmets.

      DAN’L.                      Well I’m blest!

      COLOMBINE. The very spot where Julius Caesar sat,
    Lies just behind those beeches.

      NATHAN’L.                    Think of that!

      COLOMBINE. In yonder barrow treasures rare lie hid.
    Dig deep to find them.

      DAN’L.               Well I never did!

      NATHAN’L. But when did all this
                Happen, Miss?
                How many years ago,
                I’d like to know?

      COLOMBINE. Roughly two thousand, on this very spot.

      DAN’L. Lor! What a memory you must have got.

      COLOMBINE. [_To_ NATHAN’L.] But tell me please;
    Beneath these trees,
    What travellers come, and whither bound?
    Do still these ancient heights resound
    With martial music and the tramp of men?

      NATHAN’L. Us gets a hurdy-gurdy now and then,
    And once a clown on stilts went through the wood;
    And oh! he could catch pennies, that he could.

      COLOMBINE. But in what fashion do you pass your days?

      NATHAN’L. I kill the time in various sorts of ways.
    Scaring the rooks as settles on the corn;
    Helping the shepherd when the lambs be born.
    Talking to Dan’l about these here rings,
    And wondering about a power of things.
    As don’t concern nobody, I suppose.
    But then, you must do summat, goodness knows.

      COLOMBINE. Of course. ’Tis lonely here without a doubt.
    What are the things you’re wondering about
    To-day?

[Illustration]

      NATHAN’L. Such things as surely never was.
    Such things as surely no one ever does.
    And yet, of nothing, for they moves so fast,
    You finds as you’ve forgotten them at last.
    Just like a dream they passes and be gone.
    Just like a dream they passes....

      COLOMBINE.                      Yes, go on.

      NATHAN’L. Just like a dream, for though I thinks a lot,
    Before they’re rightly thought they’re clean forgot.
    Though somehow, now I sits and talks to you,
    I keeps remembering things I never knew.
    Just like as though somebody slammed a door,
    When you was going where you’d been before;
    Leaving you standing on the further side,
    Wondering at what was happening inside.
    Whether the folk you knew was there or not;
    Whether you really knew, and had forgot;
    Whether you’d been there once when you was small,
    Or whether you was never there at all.
    ’Tis plaguey awkerd, wondering, that it be.
    And now I must be off, I wants my tea.                    [_Exit._

      COLOMBINE. Good-bye. And think sometimes of me.

                           [_Rousing herself from the brown study into
                             which this revelation has thrown her, and
                             addressing_ DAN’L.

    Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. [_Startled._] Eh?

      COLOMBINE. Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. It all depends. Why?

      COLOMBINE. There’s going to be a fight.

      DAN’L. When? Where?

      COLOMBINE. Very soon.
             By the light of the moon.
             On the very stroke of nine.
             All for love of Colombine.

      DAN’L. Shall I fetch a policeman?

      COLOMBINE. A policeman! Dear me, no.

      DAN’L. Who’s going to fight.

      COLOMBINE. Don’t you know?
                             Harlequin and Pierrot.

      DAN’L. Never heard of they.

      COLOMBINE. Won’t it be fun?

      DAN’L. Good fun
                      For the one as gets killed.

      COLOMBINE. But they won’t kill each other. They never do. They’re
    _most_ dependable.

      DAN’L. Have um fought before?

      COLOMBINE. Of course. Hundreds of times.

      DAN’L. Silly young chaps.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. They’re not silly. They’re fighting for me. Don’t you
    understand?

      DAN’L. I fought about a girl once. But only once. It was a long
    time ago.

      COLOMBINE. You’re not romantic. Romance would die if it wasn’t
    for fighting. Romance _is_ fighting.

      DAN’L. Then I’ve had quite enough romance to please me.

      COLOMBINE. All properly constituted love affairs should include
    a fight. Love without fighting is insipid.

      DAN’L. _You_ don’t have to do the fighting. Which of ’em loves
    you the most?

      COLOMBINE. Why, Pierrot, of course.

      DAN’L. Then why don’t you marry him?

      COLOMBINE. And disappoint Harlequin? I couldn’t do that.

      DAN’L. When are you going to decide?

      COLOMBINE. I don’t know. [_On her fingers._] This year, next
    year, some time, never. To-night perhaps.

      DAN’L. One day they’ll get tired of fighting. What then?

      COLOMBINE. Never!

      DAN’L. You’re sure of that?

      COLOMBINE. Oh, yes. Quite sure.

      DAN’L. One of them may get killed.

      COLOMBINE. They wouldn’t be so careless.

      DAN’L. What should you do if one of ’em got killed by accident?

      COLOMBINE. I should be very angry. But you’re very horrid to
    suggest such things. Why don’t you go away?

      DAN’L. Good-bye.

      COLOMBINE. No, stay.

      DAN’L. Well, I’m fond of a fight, I must say.

      COLOMBINE. Hush! They are coming. Quick, behind this tree.

      DAN’L. Anywhere in the background’s good enough for me.

      COLOMBINE. A fight, a fight! And all for love of me.

                    [_The orchestra plays quietly the Soldiers’ Chorus
                        and snatches of other martial refrains. The
                        two watchers betray tense excitement._
                        HARLEQUIN _and_ PIERROT _enter arm in arm.
                        Any differences they may have had are evidently
                        settled._ COLOMBINE _looks on in astonishment_.

[Illustration]

      HARLEQUIN. Mind you, as girls go, Colombine’s one of the best.

      PIERROT. Ah yes.

      HARLEQUIN. But nothing to fight about.

      PIERROT. [_Without conviction._] No.

      HARLEQUIN. And fighting’s going out of fashion. There’s no doubt
    about that.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. The whole trend of modern thought is opposed to it.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. None of the best people do it.

      PIERROT. I suppose not.

      HARLEQUIN. And one must be in the movement.

      PIERROT. Of course.

      HARLEQUIN. Arbitration’s the thing nowadays.

      PIERROT. What’s that?

      HARLEQUIN. Why, you each talk until you’re out of breath, and
    the one with most breath wins.

      PIERROT. [_Taking a deep breath._] That seems a good idea.

      HARLEQUIN. It is.

      PIERROT. But what will Colombine say if we don’t fight? She loves
    to watch us fight.

      HARLEQUIN. My dear chap, we must be firm. Adopt your point of
    view, and stick to it in the face of all opposition.

      COLOMBINE. [_Advancing._] Aren’t you going to fight?

      PIERROT. [_Kindly._] Not to-night.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! Why not?

      HARLEQUIN. Well, we’ve got
                 Other fish to fry,
                 That’s why.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! do fight!

      PIERROT. Not to-night.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, my dear girl, do listen to reason. You will admit,
    I suppose, that the most elementary point about a duel is to spit
    your opponent through the gizzard.

      COLOMBINE. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. Well, I haven’t got a gizzard, and what’s the use of
    trying to spit a man’s gizzard, if he hasn’t got a gizzard to spit?
    You must be reasonable.

      COLOMBINE. How do you know you haven’t got a gizzard?

      HARLEQUIN. We don’t know for certain, we assume.

      PIERROT. You’ve only to look at him to see there isn’t room.

      COLOMBINE. But why the gizzard? What does it matter _where_ you
    spit him so long as you do spit him?

      HARLEQUIN. For heaven’s sake, my dear girl, don’t preach such
    revolutionary doctrines. There is a certain etiquette to be
    observed, even in a battle.

      COLOMBINE. [_After a pause._] But it’s quite simple. You spit
    Pierrot. He’s got a gizzard, I suppose.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. Pierrot consulted a phrenologist....

      PIERROT. Soothsayer!

      HARLEQUIN. Sorry--soothsayer, who said he was born to be hung....

      PIERROT. Hanged!

      HARLEQUIN. Hanged, and so of course, he doesn’t want to run the
    risk of disappointing him.

      COLOMBINE. Very considerate, I’m sure.
    I think you’re absolutely _horrid_, there.               [_Cries._

      HARLEQUIN. [_To_ PIERROT.] Don’t waver, both together.

      HARLEQUIN and PIERROT. We don’t care
          Tuppence what you think or say,
          We talked the matter over, here to-day;
          And arbitration is the only way.

      COLOMBINE. You’re frightened.

      HARLEQUIN. Don’t be silly. Frightened! Me!

      COLOMBINE. Well, who’s your arbitrator going to be?

      HARLEQUIN. [_Taken aback._] Why yes, we must have someone, I
        suppose.
    But who’s to do it?

      PIERROT.          Goodness only knows!
    There’s not a single person within call.

    COLOMBINE. [_Clapping her hands._] Hurrah! You’ll have to fight,
      then, after all.

                       [_There is a pause, during which_ PIERROT _and_
                       HARLEQUIN _look at each other in dismay_.
                       COLOMBINE _on the other hand claps her
                       hands and pirouettes round the stage. Then_
                       HARLEQUIN _sees_ DAN’L _and drags him forward
                       at the same time speaking in asides_.

      HARLEQUIN. What’s your name?

      DAN’L. Much the same
            As it’s always bin,
            Week out, week in,
            This seventy year and more.

      HARLEQUIN. Good! We want you to arbitrate.
    You’re the very man.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey. I’ll do it if I can.

      HARLEQUIN. There’s much gold.
               Wealth untold!
               If you only do
               As I tell you to.

      DAN’L. Fire away!

      HARLEQUIN. Until to-day, Pierrot and I have been in the habit of
    engaging in mortal combat for the hand of Colombine. Owing to the
    fact that up to the present neither has had the decency to get
    killed, and as a result of the wave of anti-militarism that has
    swept over the country, we have decided to fall back on arbitration.
    And you are the arbitrator. You understand?

      DAN’L. No!

      HARLEQUIN. Then you’re very thick.

      DAN’L. You speaks too quick
    And the way you keeps hopping about makes me fair mazed.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. One of us is to marry
    Colombine, and you’ve to decide which it’s to be.
    Do you see?

      DAN’L. No.

      HARLEQUIN. But it’s quite simple.

      DAN’L. Maybe. But how do I know which it’s to be?

      HARLEQUIN. I’ll let you into a secret. It’s me!

      DAN’L. Oh! And if I goes and sez ’tis you,
    What’s yon chap in the white trousers going to do?

      HARLEQUIN. Never mind him. He’s a fool.

      DAN’L. It seems it don’t much matter what I say;
    I’m bound to upset one of ye either way.
    Oh! very well.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Pierrot! Gather round.

                        [_They sit in a semicircle_; COLOMBINE _and_
                          DAN’L _in the centre_.

      DAN’L. I shall catch my death of cold, sitting on this damp
    ground.

                        [_There is silence, each waiting for the other
                          to speak._

      COLOMBINE. You don’t seem very anxious, either of you.

      DAN’L. Who goes first?

      HARLEQUIN. If I don’t say something, and quickly, I shall burst.

      DAN’L. Then you’d best get started. [_Aside._] How long will it take?

      HARLEQUIN. Until it’s ended.

      DAN’L. Cut it short for goodness’ sake.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Let me take you away from these lonely hills.
    Into the heart of the world where lies the Land of Yesterday. There
    are stored all the happy hours that you have known. You shall live
    them all over again, Colombine--every one. I will lead you by secret
    paths, through the dim woods of yesternight until we stand together
    in the sunlight of the days that have been. Walking backward through
    the years, we will collect those dear lost delights, of which only
    the memory remains. From all that has gone before, it shall be yours
    to pick and choose, and no To-morrow shall throw its ominous shade
    before. The past shall deliver up its treasures to your hand; regrets
    shall be ended, and happiness shall be sure. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. No, Harlequin. The road to your Land of Yesterday is
    longer than you know, and there is no going back. Let us still take
    from the past our memories and our dreams, but do not ask for more,
    lest even these be denied.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: THE GATEWAY OF HAPPINESS]

      HARLEQUIN. As you will. Then it is to the future that we must
    turn. Colombine, far from here, set in a desert of hot sand, is a
    crystal, so large, that all the giants of Africa could not stir
    it the thickness of a hair. Peering into its depths, you may read
    your future to the end of time. A day, a week, a year, shall be no
    barrier to the vision of the mind. You may read all the riddles of
    the universe, and there will remain nothing that you do not know. You
    shall see your face as it will be when twice twenty harvest moons
    have waned, and fifty summer suns have set. And I, alone, can point
    you the way. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. You promise much, Harlequin. It may well be that in some
    spot remote from the haunts of men, the Mirror of Fate yet lies hid.
    And you may find it. Who knows! But this, at least, is certain; the
    path will be difficult and the journey long. Would you not tire by
    the way, Harlequin? I think you would. [_Pause._] And, it is not in
    distant deserts I would seek. In the woods of home, hearts may thrill
    to the eloquent silences of the night. [HARLEQUIN _rises_.] All the
    secrets of the world might be ours, did we but care to learn the
    simple language of the nightingale. Across the moonlight, the shadows
    of the branches trace unforgettable things. Great secrets tremble on
    the lips of the leaves, and mortals grope vainly in the daylight for
    things seen most plainly in the dark.

      DAN’L. [_Coughing to draw attention to himself._]
    I’ve allus noticed, in whatever parts I med ha’ bin,
    A maid in love have allus got a fairish yarn to spin.
    And in whatever parts I’ve bin, I’ve allus noticed too,
    The foolish lads do take it all for gospel, that um do.
    But though I’ve kept good notice in whatever parts I was,
    I’ve never heard a maid to spin a yarn like this un does.
    Ur be a marvel, that ur be; I hope as ur won’t try
    When ur’s tired of you two fellows here, to spin no yarns to I;
    For fools be mostly biggest fools when um be old and grey.
    And if I went along o’ she, what _ud_ my missus say.
    Next man?

      COLOMBINE. Come, Pierrot!

      PIERROT. [_With an effort._] Colombine!

      COLOMBINE. Yes, Pierrot.

      HARLEQUIN. Go on!

      DAN’L. Let’s hear what you’ve got to say, young fellow.

      PIERROT. There is nothing to say.

      COLOMBINE. Nothing to say!

      PIERROT. Save that I love you, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. And is that so small a thing, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. But I have nothing to offer you, nothing.

      COLOMBINE. [_Softly._] Save yourself.

      HARLEQUIN. I have always said that Pierrot was master of sounding
    silences. The sweetest singer of unsung songs, his eloquent nothings
    go shrieking through the void. He scorns to desecrate the virgin
    purity of his foolscap with the written word. What love is that which
    dare not tell its love? Come, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. See, Harlequin, here is a beech nut. You shake it, yet
    there is no sound. Is it full? Is it empty?

      HARLEQUIN. Who can say?

      DAN’L. Likewise, young Nathan’l he picks up a match-box last week,
    and throws it away because there was no sound when he rattles en
    [_To_ HARLEQUIN.] And what do you think?

      HARLEQUIN. I couldn’t say.

      DAN’L. It was so full all the time as not to rattle at all.

      HARLEQUIN. [_Scornfully._] Matches! ye gods! Let’s talk of cucumbers,
    Or shame the glory of this summer night
    With tales of warming-pans.
    Has no one here a button-hook,
    With which to probe the vast unsounded deeps
    [_To_ DAN’L.] Of thy poor addled brain.
    It yet may be,
    In some uncharted corner of the void
    That passes for thy mind,
    We find a collar-stud.
    Farewell!                                                 [_Exit._

      DAN’L. Well, he won’t come back again, that I will be bound,
    And as I be catching my death of cold, sitting on this damp ground,
    I’d best be moving. [_Rises._] Ugh! Good-night to ee.

      PIERROT. Good-night!

      COLOMBINE. [_Aside to_ DAN’L.] And, Mr. Arbitrator, if you see
    Your friend Nathan’l, say that Pierrot
    Owes more to him than he will ever know. [_Exit_ DAN’L.

      COLOMBINE. They have gone!

      PIERROT. Ah!

      COLOMBINE. And the night draws on.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      COLOMBINE. You are sad. Why are you sad, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. I cannot tell.

      COLOMBINE. And you are cold. Is it the night air?

      PIERROT. The wind-swept wold
    Is a street of gold,
    So my lady be walking there.

      COLOMBINE. Yet you are sad. See, they have gone and will not
    come again.

      PIERROT. So love may vanish too,
    And of his chain no link remain
    To tell the way he flew.

      COLOMBINE. Love, as the skylark, soars into that Heaven where’t
    fain would be.

      PIERROT. And singing still, returns. Time was when you, with
    Harlequin, would revel till the cold grey dawn came in.

      COLOMBINE. Light loves sometime were pleasant, but to-night the
    face of love seems changed. No more will stray this wandering heart
    of mine.

      PIERROT. Are you not sorry, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. Sorry for what, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. For loss of Harlequin.

      COLOMBINE. Harlequin is very clever but he talks of what he does
    not know, and promises what is not his to give. Cleverness is not
    everything, Pierrot. The mind is like a garden full of flowers, but
        The heart is a little house,
        With windows facing southerly;
        By which a pathway winds.
        And there, behind the blinds,
        We sit and wait,
        Watching, waiting for what?
        We know not.

    The garden is a pleasant place in summer, but when it is winter, we
    seek the fireside of the little house.

      PIERROT. Yet you are fond of gardens and pretty flowers, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. What flowers grow
          In your garden, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. My garden is full of the flowers,
          My mother planted for me;
          Curious, old-world flowers,
          Thyme, lavender, rosemary.
          Planted in days gone by.
          And, though no gardener I,
          As the shadows fall, I tend them all;
          Watering, pruning there.
          Am I happy in my lot?
          I know not.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. And there is the little house, Pierrot.

      PIERROT. Ah, yes there is the little house.
          Do you remember when
          You peeped through the pane, and then
          Went on your way again?
          Out of my sight, although,
          I beckoned you as you passed,
          And sat at my window mournfully.
          But you came again at last.
          And, seeing you come, I said;
          “The flowers in my garden are dead,
          So will she have no more of me.”

    COLOMBINE. I am knocking at the door, Pierrot.
          Knocking and waiting there,
          For the sound of a step on the stair.
          Will you open to me, Pierrot?

                                [PIERROT’S _answer may be taken in the
                                  affirmative. As they sit together, it
                                  grows dark._

[Illustration]

      PIERROT. [_Rising._] Come dear, and let us go,
    Together, hand in hand,
    Into that sun-lit land,
    Where life and love are things inseparable.
    Where, beneath cloudless skies,
    The happy are the wise,
    And none reprove the glory of a love they may not understand.

                                                     [_Exit together._
                          [_It becomes quite dark_: DAN’L _and an_ OLD
                            MAN _pass slowly across the stage, carrying
                            lanterns, and peering cautiously into the
                            blackness of the night_.

      THE OLD MAN. You was dreaming, Dan’l. That’s about the size of it.

      DAN’L. And I tells ee I wur as wide awake as you be. Us had been
    sitting over-long by the clump, and all of a sudden I looks up and
    sees a fairy. “Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l,” I sez, “be I dreaming or
    be I cracked?”

                              [_They pass off, and the curtain falls._


                                FINIS

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                             OTHER VERSES




                            THE MARIONETTE


        Man is merely a marionette
          On invisible wires suspended.
        And it’s just as well he shouldn’t forget
            That Fate the showman is in the wings,
            Working the business and pulling the strings
        Till his turn is over and ended.

        Man is merely a figure on strings,
          By the glare of the footlights blinded.
        And the wonderful way he dances and sings
            Is not unlikely to fill his mind
            With a great contempt for the Power behind,
        Till suddenly he’s reminded.

        Man is the cream of an idle jest,
          A smile on the face of sorrow.
        A sad peculiar figure at best;
            Willing to sacrifice every day,
            Breaking his heart in the hope of play
        On a problematical morrow.




                          A LETTER FROM HOME


        I’ve a letter from home to-day;
        A letter from home to say
        That they’re cutting the trees in the Priory Wood,
        That lambing is over and crops are good.
        Quite the usual thing, be it understood,
        Is my letter from home, to-day.

        I’ve a letter from home, to-day;
        A letter from far away,
        Bidding me ever to bear in mind
        The dear old friends I have left behind.
        But I’m not of the quickly forgetting kind,
        Dear letter from home, to-day!

        In my letter from home, to-day;
        Is a postscript, just to say
        “No doubt you’ll be very much grieved to hear
        That the girl who stayed at the Grange last year,
        Is dead, and was yesterday buried here.”
        And the world has ended, to-day.




                           THE EXPLANATION


                How do I know I love you?
                Why, because
                When you’re away, d’ye see,
                I kind o’ wanders lonesome like
                An’ frets,
                ’Cause you’re not there with me.
                An’ when I meet you by the stile
                At night,
                And not a soul to see,
                I scarce durst speak to you because
                You’re you, an’ I’m just me.




                              MEMORANDA


                In your Book of Memory,
                Set aside no page for me.
                Do not write our friendship there,
                But, if you’ve the time to spare,
                Scribble just this hurried line:
                “He was once a friend of mine.”

                Blot it very carefully,
                Turn the page that none may see.
                Life goes singing down the way
                Different ballads every day.
                Other pages open fair,
                Set new tales of friendship there.

                And the day will come maybe,
                When that hurried line of me;
                Seen by chance a moment’s space,
                Will recall a vanished face,
                And a memory sweeter than
                Many written pages can.




                      LOVE, LAUGHTER, AND AFTER


            The ruinous cottage, the broken latch;
            The cold stone floor and the dripping thatch.
            The ripe red lips of the girl who stands
            Holding her lover’s hands.

            The gay Casino, the fancy ball;
            The twinkling lights of the crowded hall.
            The cool sweet air of the terrace dim,
            Love and laughter and--him.

            The pitiful pageant that follows soon;
            The music hall and the cheap saloon.
            The sad procession, the coffee stall.
            The river that ends it all.




                             TH’ COORTIN’


                ’Tis just about a wik ago,
                  Or mebbe two, or theresabout,
                As I axed Kate why ur an’ Joe
                  Was seed together waalking out;
                Whenas, fur nigh upon a year,
                ’Twur I as had been coortin’ ur.

                “Why, laws-a-mussey, Bill,” ur sez,
                  “Fur certain sure ye must allow
                Us two caan’t alluz spend our days
                  The same as us be doin’ now.
                Ye’d better wed wi’ one ye doan’t
                Than waalk wi’ one ye do, as woan’t.”

                I cudden zackly understand
                  What ’twur as she was drivin’ at,
                Until I cotched ur by the hand
                  And took a peep ’erneath ur hat.
                Wur what I see surprised I so,
                  I gi’ed ur kiss, an’ whispered low:
                “Ye’d better wed the feller who
                Has alluz bin in luv wi’ you.”
                And that’s just what ur means to do.




                              AGREEMENT

                    Oyez! Oyez! Behold we state
                    The rules of this our Syndicate.


              Let it be granted first of all,
              That you are not so young and small
              As foolish people would suppose,
              From your long hair and shorter clothes.

              Item the second, please agree
              To just the opposite in me.
              For would the wisest man alive
              Imagine I was twenty-five?

              This done, folk cannot make a fuss,
              Or say that we’re preposterous.
              For you become, as all may see,
              A chaperone in charge of me.

              Thirdly, this reservation’s made,
              The Syndicate’s too old and staid
              To ride (though you’ll object no doubt)
              In swinging boat and roundabout.

              Fourthly, the world’s a dear old place,
              So always keep a smiling face.
              It suits you best, and as to that,
              So does pink chiffon in your hat.

              Lastly, lest envious folk combine
              To wreck your Syndicate, and mine,
              My autograph is here affixed,
              Written in blood and water mixed.

       _P.S._ It may not look like blood to you
              But recollect my blood is blue.




                             THE BURYIN’


                The mists be on the river bed,
                The roses all be gone;
                And here be I, about to die,
                Wi’ harvest coming on.
                Dear Lord, I’ve trapsed some weary miles,
                I’ll be main glad to rest awhiles.

                The folk’ll soon be in the fields,
                A-getting in the grain.
                For most of those, the time I’ve chose
                Be awkerd in the main.
                Though not so bad, ’tis sure, for they
                As be a-working by the day.

                September be a better month
                For all the carter men;
                And when I die don’t signify,
                So let I bide till then.
                The wagons’ll be standing by,
                And there’ll be time to bury I.




                          A ZONG TO ZING-OH!


            When the zun beyond the Beacon be a-zettin’
            And everything’s as quiet as can be,
            By the gate to varmur’s meddy,
            That old gate zo vurm and zteddy,
            You be pretty zure uv vindin’ Jim and me.

            When the mists along the valley be uprisin’
            And the nightingale’s a-zingin’ in the tree;
            When the peewits be a-zquawkin’
            Uz don’t waste no time a-talkin’
            Time’s a vasty zight too short sez Jim an’ me

            With the honeyzuckle zcent zo thick as treacle,
            And the chestnut blossoms droppin’ onto we;
            As us zets zo close together,
            Why zometimes I wonders whether
            Jim ull zet that close in Paradise to me.

            When the clocks down in the village be a-strikin’
            And darkness comes a-creepin’ up the lea,
            Then, though us be zeldom ready,
            Us must leave old varmur’s meddy,
            Or the volk ull all be wonderin’ where us be.




                                 SONG


            Long ago,
            (How long ago I really don’t know;)
            A kingfisher lived in a valley of green,
            The finest kingfisher that ever was seen--
            In that little green valley I know.

            Silent and slow
            All in a row, buttercups grow.
            One day the kingfisher selected his queen,
            And the bride wore a costume of purple and green
            ’Neath the willows that stand in a row.

            Heigho!
            (As the years go, still the streams flow)
            The whole of this summer they haven’t been seen,
            And a wood-pecker reigns in that valley serene.
            Where they’ve gone to I really don’t know.




                              PHILOSOPHY


                When I was young, in days gone by,
                I smoked Wild Woodbines on the sly.
                They made me ill, but what of that?
                ’Twas nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                If I had shirked that pallid brow
                I couldn’t smoke Havanas now.

                The only girl I ever kissed,
                Both found and left an optimist.
                She jilted me, but even that
                Was nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                I’ve such a cozy little den,
                And know a lot of married men.

                And now, although I’m getting stout,
                And though my hair is falling out,
                And people call me old and fat,
                There’s nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                Although I am a perfect fright,
                I don’t look bad by candle light.




                               FORFEITS


                You fail to catch the trencher spun
                And, later, when the game is done,
                The lady who collects the fees
                Demands a forfeit, if you please.
                You find a penny, grimed and black,
                And hope that you may get it back.

                You sit in speechless misery,
                And wonder what your fate will be,
                Until, within that giggling ring,
                You have to claim the wretched thing;
                Then sally forth upon your quest,
                To kiss the one you love the best.

                You don’t appreciate the fun,
                But curb a wild desire to run;
                Then seek a matron staid and stout,
                And drag the willing victim out;
                Because, of course, it wouldn’t do
                To kiss the girl you wanted to.




                             THE REVIVAL


            Take me away, for I will see no more;
            It was but yesterday I saw the play before,
            The day on which my dear and I were wed--
            Your mother, child--your mother who is dead.
            Why did you bring me here to see a play
            Which she and I saw only yesterday?




                         A PATRON OF THE ARTS


                    I knew a lady once I did,
                    Who lived away at Pontypridd;
                    She liked my verses very much,
                    And said I had the lyric touch.

                    She used to ask me round to lunch,
                    And say I ought to edit “Punch,”
                    As Owen S. and Francis B.,
                    Were amateurs compared to me.

                    Last week I met her in a batch
                    Of lunatics at Colney Hatch,
                    And heard she always spoke of me
                    As far surpassing Calverley.




                              CRITICISM


                A simple poet on a time,
                Resolved to write a simple rhyme.
                His verse was pleasing to the ear;
                He also made his meaning clear.

                The critics glanced at it, and said
                Such rubbish they had never read.
                A point on which they did agree,
                With touching unanimity.

                The simple poet took his lay,
                And turned it round the other way.
                Shuffled the sentences about,
                And took a dozen commas out.

                The critics took the volume, and
                Read, marked--and failed to understand.
                Then fell upon their stomachs flat,
                This prodigy to marvel at.




                           TREASON AND PLOT


                When I am very, very rich,
                  And very famous, too,
                I’ll take a cab to Regent’s Park,
                  And walk into the Zoo
                With quite a consequential air,
                For I shall be the richest there.

                And in a lordly way I’ll take
                  A shilling from my purse,
                And buy the biggest rattle-snake
                  To carry home to Nurse,
                And, as she’s very short of breath,
                Perhaps ’twill frighten her to death.




                        THE POPPY AND THE POET


                Like poppies in the golden corn,
                  The poet’s race is run;
                Each strives alike to gain the ear;
                  The poppy from the sun
                Borrows more radiance than gold--
                A poet’s much the same, I’m told.

                But still these differences appear
                  When everything is said;
                The poet’s leaves, I greatly fear,
                  Are very seldom read.
                Poppies but borrow from the sun--
                A poet will from anyone.




                              EL DORADO


                He sought it through the golden isles
                Of Once Upon a Time.
                In fabled fields of Might Have Been
                He heard its distant chime.
                He saw, mid Dreamland’s mystic glades,
                Its turrets from afar;
                And found it in the valley, where
                The deepest shadows are.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


The Project Gutenberg eBook of Colombine a fantasy
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Colombine a fantasy
        and other verses

Author: Reginald Arkell

Illustrator: Frederick Carter

Release date: June 19, 2025 [eBook #76341]

Language: English

Original publication: London: Benn and Cronin, Ltd, 1911

Credits: Carol Brown, Charlene Taylor and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***

Transcriber’s Note:

Words and phrases in italics are surrounded by underscores, _like
this_.

“ro” was changed to “to” ... desire to run ...




  COLOMBINE

  A FANTASY

  AND OTHER VERSES




  _LONDON_
  BENN AND CRONIN, LTD.
  CRAVEN HOUSE, KINGSWAY, W.C.
  1911




       _Copyright: Entered at Stationers’ Hall, December 1911.
                  Acting Rights strictly Reserved._




[Illustration: COLOMBINE.]




[Illustration:

  COLOMBINE
  A FANTASY

  BY REGINALD ARKELL

  WITH SOME DRAWINGS
  BY FREDERICK CARTER.]




[Illustration]




                            AUTHOR’S NOTE

“COLOMBINE” was first performed at Clavier Hall, Hanover Square, W.,
on Thursday, 7th December 1911, with the following cast:

    Dan’l (an old man)         MR. B. BUTLER.
    Nathan’l (a boy)           MR. A. E. FILMER.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Harlequin                  MR. REGINALD BACH.
    Pierrot                    MR. MARK HANNAM.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Colombine                  MISS ETHEL EVANS.

    The play was produced by MR. A. E. FILMER.


                                SCENE

  A ROMAN CAMP on the summit of Cissbury Beacon in the South Downs.
     A fairy ring occupies the foreground. All round are beech trees.
     The time is evening.




[Illustration]




                               PROLOGUE


    There are circles of green upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the Pharisees dance--so they say;
    Revelling merrily round it until
    The dawn over Ditchling is gray.
    And travellers lost upon Cissbury Hill--
    (Pixy-led folk who stray)
    Seated on toad-stools, with fairy folk sup,
    _But here, in Haymarket, the roadway is up_.

    There are circles of beech upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the leaves of a lifetime decay;
    Hiding the memories, lingering still,
    Of Rome’s indisputable sway.
    And under the beech-leaves of Cissbury Hill,
    Throbs the heart of the downland alway.
    While dreaming of chieftains and warriors in woad,
    _You’re lighting your pipe in the Charing Cross Road_.




[Illustration]




                              COLOMBINE


     _An old man and a boy are seen talking; both are labourers.
                 The old man, who is seated, speaks_:

      DAN’L. Well, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. There’s little use in stopping here much longer.

      NATHAN’L. Not as I can see.

      DAN’L. Like my old eyes, the sun don’t grow no stronger.

      NATHAN’L. And I wants my tea.

      DAN’L. Do ee, lad?

      NATHAN’L. Ah, main bad.

      DAN’L. Which means ’tis time to go, I reckons.

      NATHAN’L. That’s a proposition as I seconds.

      DAN’L. Come on then, let’s be moving. Tip us yer daddle.

      NATHAN’L. All of a sudden you be in a mortal caddle.
    I wants to hear the finish of that yarn
    As you was spinning down at Tranter’s Barn.
    A peck of troubles it was all about.
    I wants to know how everything turned out.

      DAN’L. You wants your tea, that’s what you wants, my son.

      NATHAN’L. There’s time enough for tea when you be done.

      DAN’L. Well, though ’tis little enough I read,
    I sid in a story-book years ago,
    (Though mind, Nathan’l, there beant no need
    To be letting on as I told ee so)
    That all the troubles as worrits a man
    Was locked in a box when the world began.

    And there no doubt they’d ha’ bid till now,
    If the dummel soul as had got the key,
    Hadn’t got mixed up with a maid somehow
    And gone and handed it over to she.
    And what do ee fancy the maiden did?
    Darn me, Nathan’l, ur lifted the lid.

[Illustration]

    And all they troubles come trooping out,
    Like hens from a chicken-run might have done.
    For the maiden fancied without a doubt,
    They’d go back in the evening like, one by one.
    But time’s got to settle a few more clocks,
    Afore they troubles goes back to their box.

    Straight, Nathan’l, ’tis near enough
    To make a methody parson swear.
    And every time as I reads such stuff,
    I goes so red as yon moon up there.
    To think of the trouble ur brought on we--
    I reckon I owes my old gal to she.

      NATHAN’L. Is it true, do ee think, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, mebbe not, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee think, Dan’l--she let out the lot?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe not.

      NATHAN’L. Sounds like a fairy story to me.

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe, mebbe.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee believe in fairies, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Can’t be sure as I do, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, I don’t anyway, and that’s a fact.

                          _Enter_ COLOMBINE.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l, be I dreaming or be I cracked?

      NATHAN’L. My goodness, Dan’l, I do believe as she’s a fairy....

      DAN’L. Here, come into the shadow of these trees,
    And give that clacking tongue of yourn a rest.

      NATHAN’L. Oh, this be more wonderful than all the things I ever
          guessed.

      DAN’L. And it means _summat_ that you _may_ depend.

      NATHAN’L. See, where she walks, the grass don’t even bend
    Beneath her feet. She be a fairy, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. I wish you’d hold your clacking tongue, Nathan’l.

                      [COLOMBINE, _hearing a noise, pauses to listen_.

      COLOMBINE. Who’s there? The daylight fades. I cannot see.

      DAN’L. You go.

      NATHAN’L.     No, you.

      DAN’L.                So please you, Miss, ’tis we.

      COLOMBINE. Good evening, Sirs.

      DAN’L.                Our best respects to ee.
    A goodish evening to be sure, but getting dark and cold.
    Time gals like you was safe abed, if I might make so bold.

      COLOMBINE. Old man, the night has but begun.

      DAN’L. The day be done.

      COLOMBINE. The moon has scarcely risen yet.

      DAN’L. The sun have set.

      COLOMBINE. The sun his wandering footsteps stays to greet the crescent moon.
    The nightjar and the nightingale will both be singing soon.

      DAN’L. Us don’t set much store by nightingales in these parts,
            and as for nightjars! Oh lor, us shoots they.
          Give I a linnet now,
          A-sitting on a bough;
          As sings his message to the sun,
          And goes to sleep when day be done,
          Respectable like!

      NATHAN’L. [_Coming forward._]
          Queer things,
          These here rings
          You sees in the grass
          When you pass.
          They say ’tis where Pharisees dances at night!
          Be that right?

      COLOMBINE. Quite right; yet once the circle that you see,
    Saw war and tumult.

      DAN’L.           Lawks-a-mussey me!

      COLOMBINE. The Roman legions camped on yonder brow,
    And built the road you stand on.

      NATHAN’L.                     Did they now!

      COLOMBINE. The sun would sink out yonder in the west,
    And shine upon their helmets.

      DAN’L.                      Well I’m blest!

      COLOMBINE. The very spot where Julius Caesar sat,
    Lies just behind those beeches.

      NATHAN’L.                    Think of that!

      COLOMBINE. In yonder barrow treasures rare lie hid.
    Dig deep to find them.

      DAN’L.               Well I never did!

      NATHAN’L. But when did all this
                Happen, Miss?
                How many years ago,
                I’d like to know?

      COLOMBINE. Roughly two thousand, on this very spot.

      DAN’L. Lor! What a memory you must have got.

      COLOMBINE. [_To_ NATHAN’L.] But tell me please;
    Beneath these trees,
    What travellers come, and whither bound?
    Do still these ancient heights resound
    With martial music and the tramp of men?

      NATHAN’L. Us gets a hurdy-gurdy now and then,
    And once a clown on stilts went through the wood;
    And oh! he could catch pennies, that he could.

      COLOMBINE. But in what fashion do you pass your days?

      NATHAN’L. I kill the time in various sorts of ways.
    Scaring the rooks as settles on the corn;
    Helping the shepherd when the lambs be born.
    Talking to Dan’l about these here rings,
    And wondering about a power of things.
    As don’t concern nobody, I suppose.
    But then, you must do summat, goodness knows.

      COLOMBINE. Of course. ’Tis lonely here without a doubt.
    What are the things you’re wondering about
    To-day?

[Illustration]

      NATHAN’L. Such things as surely never was.
    Such things as surely no one ever does.
    And yet, of nothing, for they moves so fast,
    You finds as you’ve forgotten them at last.
    Just like a dream they passes and be gone.
    Just like a dream they passes....

      COLOMBINE.                      Yes, go on.

      NATHAN’L. Just like a dream, for though I thinks a lot,
    Before they’re rightly thought they’re clean forgot.
    Though somehow, now I sits and talks to you,
    I keeps remembering things I never knew.
    Just like as though somebody slammed a door,
    When you was going where you’d been before;
    Leaving you standing on the further side,
    Wondering at what was happening inside.
    Whether the folk you knew was there or not;
    Whether you really knew, and had forgot;
    Whether you’d been there once when you was small,
    Or whether you was never there at all.
    ’Tis plaguey awkerd, wondering, that it be.
    And now I must be off, I wants my tea.                    [_Exit._

      COLOMBINE. Good-bye. And think sometimes of me.

                           [_Rousing herself from the brown study into
                             which this revelation has thrown her, and
                             addressing_ DAN’L.

    Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. [_Startled._] Eh?

      COLOMBINE. Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. It all depends. Why?

      COLOMBINE. There’s going to be a fight.

      DAN’L. When? Where?

      COLOMBINE. Very soon.
             By the light of the moon.
             On the very stroke of nine.
             All for love of Colombine.

      DAN’L. Shall I fetch a policeman?

      COLOMBINE. A policeman! Dear me, no.

      DAN’L. Who’s going to fight.

      COLOMBINE. Don’t you know?
                             Harlequin and Pierrot.

      DAN’L. Never heard of they.

      COLOMBINE. Won’t it be fun?

      DAN’L. Good fun
                      For the one as gets killed.

      COLOMBINE. But they won’t kill each other. They never do. They’re
    _most_ dependable.

      DAN’L. Have um fought before?

      COLOMBINE. Of course. Hundreds of times.

      DAN’L. Silly young chaps.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. They’re not silly. They’re fighting for me. Don’t you
    understand?

      DAN’L. I fought about a girl once. But only once. It was a long
    time ago.

      COLOMBINE. You’re not romantic. Romance would die if it wasn’t
    for fighting. Romance _is_ fighting.

      DAN’L. Then I’ve had quite enough romance to please me.

      COLOMBINE. All properly constituted love affairs should include
    a fight. Love without fighting is insipid.

      DAN’L. _You_ don’t have to do the fighting. Which of ’em loves
    you the most?

      COLOMBINE. Why, Pierrot, of course.

      DAN’L. Then why don’t you marry him?

      COLOMBINE. And disappoint Harlequin? I couldn’t do that.

      DAN’L. When are you going to decide?

      COLOMBINE. I don’t know. [_On her fingers._] This year, next
    year, some time, never. To-night perhaps.

      DAN’L. One day they’ll get tired of fighting. What then?

      COLOMBINE. Never!

      DAN’L. You’re sure of that?

      COLOMBINE. Oh, yes. Quite sure.

      DAN’L. One of them may get killed.

      COLOMBINE. They wouldn’t be so careless.

      DAN’L. What should you do if one of ’em got killed by accident?

      COLOMBINE. I should be very angry. But you’re very horrid to
    suggest such things. Why don’t you go away?

      DAN’L. Good-bye.

      COLOMBINE. No, stay.

      DAN’L. Well, I’m fond of a fight, I must say.

      COLOMBINE. Hush! They are coming. Quick, behind this tree.

      DAN’L. Anywhere in the background’s good enough for me.

      COLOMBINE. A fight, a fight! And all for love of me.

                    [_The orchestra plays quietly the Soldiers’ Chorus
                        and snatches of other martial refrains. The
                        two watchers betray tense excitement._
                        HARLEQUIN _and_ PIERROT _enter arm in arm.
                        Any differences they may have had are evidently
                        settled._ COLOMBINE _looks on in astonishment_.

[Illustration]

      HARLEQUIN. Mind you, as girls go, Colombine’s one of the best.

      PIERROT. Ah yes.

      HARLEQUIN. But nothing to fight about.

      PIERROT. [_Without conviction._] No.

      HARLEQUIN. And fighting’s going out of fashion. There’s no doubt
    about that.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. The whole trend of modern thought is opposed to it.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. None of the best people do it.

      PIERROT. I suppose not.

      HARLEQUIN. And one must be in the movement.

      PIERROT. Of course.

      HARLEQUIN. Arbitration’s the thing nowadays.

      PIERROT. What’s that?

      HARLEQUIN. Why, you each talk until you’re out of breath, and
    the one with most breath wins.

      PIERROT. [_Taking a deep breath._] That seems a good idea.

      HARLEQUIN. It is.

      PIERROT. But what will Colombine say if we don’t fight? She loves
    to watch us fight.

      HARLEQUIN. My dear chap, we must be firm. Adopt your point of
    view, and stick to it in the face of all opposition.

      COLOMBINE. [_Advancing._] Aren’t you going to fight?

      PIERROT. [_Kindly._] Not to-night.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! Why not?

      HARLEQUIN. Well, we’ve got
                 Other fish to fry,
                 That’s why.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! do fight!

      PIERROT. Not to-night.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, my dear girl, do listen to reason. You will admit,
    I suppose, that the most elementary point about a duel is to spit
    your opponent through the gizzard.

      COLOMBINE. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. Well, I haven’t got a gizzard, and what’s the use of
    trying to spit a man’s gizzard, if he hasn’t got a gizzard to spit?
    You must be reasonable.

      COLOMBINE. How do you know you haven’t got a gizzard?

      HARLEQUIN. We don’t know for certain, we assume.

      PIERROT. You’ve only to look at him to see there isn’t room.

      COLOMBINE. But why the gizzard? What does it matter _where_ you
    spit him so long as you do spit him?

      HARLEQUIN. For heaven’s sake, my dear girl, don’t preach such
    revolutionary doctrines. There is a certain etiquette to be
    observed, even in a battle.

      COLOMBINE. [_After a pause._] But it’s quite simple. You spit
    Pierrot. He’s got a gizzard, I suppose.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. Pierrot consulted a phrenologist....

      PIERROT. Soothsayer!

      HARLEQUIN. Sorry--soothsayer, who said he was born to be hung....

      PIERROT. Hanged!

      HARLEQUIN. Hanged, and so of course, he doesn’t want to run the
    risk of disappointing him.

      COLOMBINE. Very considerate, I’m sure.
    I think you’re absolutely _horrid_, there.               [_Cries._

      HARLEQUIN. [_To_ PIERROT.] Don’t waver, both together.

      HARLEQUIN and PIERROT. We don’t care
          Tuppence what you think or say,
          We talked the matter over, here to-day;
          And arbitration is the only way.

      COLOMBINE. You’re frightened.

      HARLEQUIN. Don’t be silly. Frightened! Me!

      COLOMBINE. Well, who’s your arbitrator going to be?

      HARLEQUIN. [_Taken aback._] Why yes, we must have someone, I
        suppose.
    But who’s to do it?

      PIERROT.          Goodness only knows!
    There’s not a single person within call.

    COLOMBINE. [_Clapping her hands._] Hurrah! You’ll have to fight,
      then, after all.

                       [_There is a pause, during which_ PIERROT _and_
                       HARLEQUIN _look at each other in dismay_.
                       COLOMBINE _on the other hand claps her
                       hands and pirouettes round the stage. Then_
                       HARLEQUIN _sees_ DAN’L _and drags him forward
                       at the same time speaking in asides_.

      HARLEQUIN. What’s your name?

      DAN’L. Much the same
            As it’s always bin,
            Week out, week in,
            This seventy year and more.

      HARLEQUIN. Good! We want you to arbitrate.
    You’re the very man.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey. I’ll do it if I can.

      HARLEQUIN. There’s much gold.
               Wealth untold!
               If you only do
               As I tell you to.

      DAN’L. Fire away!

      HARLEQUIN. Until to-day, Pierrot and I have been in the habit of
    engaging in mortal combat for the hand of Colombine. Owing to the
    fact that up to the present neither has had the decency to get
    killed, and as a result of the wave of anti-militarism that has
    swept over the country, we have decided to fall back on arbitration.
    And you are the arbitrator. You understand?

      DAN’L. No!

      HARLEQUIN. Then you’re very thick.

      DAN’L. You speaks too quick
    And the way you keeps hopping about makes me fair mazed.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. One of us is to marry
    Colombine, and you’ve to decide which it’s to be.
    Do you see?

      DAN’L. No.

      HARLEQUIN. But it’s quite simple.

      DAN’L. Maybe. But how do I know which it’s to be?

      HARLEQUIN. I’ll let you into a secret. It’s me!

      DAN’L. Oh! And if I goes and sez ’tis you,
    What’s yon chap in the white trousers going to do?

      HARLEQUIN. Never mind him. He’s a fool.

      DAN’L. It seems it don’t much matter what I say;
    I’m bound to upset one of ye either way.
    Oh! very well.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Pierrot! Gather round.

                        [_They sit in a semicircle_; COLOMBINE _and_
                          DAN’L _in the centre_.

      DAN’L. I shall catch my death of cold, sitting on this damp
    ground.

                        [_There is silence, each waiting for the other
                          to speak._

      COLOMBINE. You don’t seem very anxious, either of you.

      DAN’L. Who goes first?

      HARLEQUIN. If I don’t say something, and quickly, I shall burst.

      DAN’L. Then you’d best get started. [_Aside._] How long will it take?

      HARLEQUIN. Until it’s ended.

      DAN’L. Cut it short for goodness’ sake.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Let me take you away from these lonely hills.
    Into the heart of the world where lies the Land of Yesterday. There
    are stored all the happy hours that you have known. You shall live
    them all over again, Colombine--every one. I will lead you by secret
    paths, through the dim woods of yesternight until we stand together
    in the sunlight of the days that have been. Walking backward through
    the years, we will collect those dear lost delights, of which only
    the memory remains. From all that has gone before, it shall be yours
    to pick and choose, and no To-morrow shall throw its ominous shade
    before. The past shall deliver up its treasures to your hand; regrets
    shall be ended, and happiness shall be sure. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. No, Harlequin. The road to your Land of Yesterday is
    longer than you know, and there is no going back. Let us still take
    from the past our memories and our dreams, but do not ask for more,
    lest even these be denied.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: THE GATEWAY OF HAPPINESS]

      HARLEQUIN. As you will. Then it is to the future that we must
    turn. Colombine, far from here, set in a desert of hot sand, is a
    crystal, so large, that all the giants of Africa could not stir
    it the thickness of a hair. Peering into its depths, you may read
    your future to the end of time. A day, a week, a year, shall be no
    barrier to the vision of the mind. You may read all the riddles of
    the universe, and there will remain nothing that you do not know. You
    shall see your face as it will be when twice twenty harvest moons
    have waned, and fifty summer suns have set. And I, alone, can point
    you the way. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. You promise much, Harlequin. It may well be that in some
    spot remote from the haunts of men, the Mirror of Fate yet lies hid.
    And you may find it. Who knows! But this, at least, is certain; the
    path will be difficult and the journey long. Would you not tire by
    the way, Harlequin? I think you would. [_Pause._] And, it is not in
    distant deserts I would seek. In the woods of home, hearts may thrill
    to the eloquent silences of the night. [HARLEQUIN _rises_.] All the
    secrets of the world might be ours, did we but care to learn the
    simple language of the nightingale. Across the moonlight, the shadows
    of the branches trace unforgettable things. Great secrets tremble on
    the lips of the leaves, and mortals grope vainly in the daylight for
    things seen most plainly in the dark.

      DAN’L. [_Coughing to draw attention to himself._]
    I’ve allus noticed, in whatever parts I med ha’ bin,
    A maid in love have allus got a fairish yarn to spin.
    And in whatever parts I’ve bin, I’ve allus noticed too,
    The foolish lads do take it all for gospel, that um do.
    But though I’ve kept good notice in whatever parts I was,
    I’ve never heard a maid to spin a yarn like this un does.
    Ur be a marvel, that ur be; I hope as ur won’t try
    When ur’s tired of you two fellows here, to spin no yarns to I;
    For fools be mostly biggest fools when um be old and grey.
    And if I went along o’ she, what _ud_ my missus say.
    Next man?

      COLOMBINE. Come, Pierrot!

      PIERROT. [_With an effort._] Colombine!

      COLOMBINE. Yes, Pierrot.

      HARLEQUIN. Go on!

      DAN’L. Let’s hear what you’ve got to say, young fellow.

      PIERROT. There is nothing to say.

      COLOMBINE. Nothing to say!

      PIERROT. Save that I love you, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. And is that so small a thing, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. But I have nothing to offer you, nothing.

      COLOMBINE. [_Softly._] Save yourself.

      HARLEQUIN. I have always said that Pierrot was master of sounding
    silences. The sweetest singer of unsung songs, his eloquent nothings
    go shrieking through the void. He scorns to desecrate the virgin
    purity of his foolscap with the written word. What love is that which
    dare not tell its love? Come, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. See, Harlequin, here is a beech nut. You shake it, yet
    there is no sound. Is it full? Is it empty?

      HARLEQUIN. Who can say?

      DAN’L. Likewise, young Nathan’l he picks up a match-box last week,
    and throws it away because there was no sound when he rattles en
    [_To_ HARLEQUIN.] And what do you think?

      HARLEQUIN. I couldn’t say.

      DAN’L. It was so full all the time as not to rattle at all.

      HARLEQUIN. [_Scornfully._] Matches! ye gods! Let’s talk of cucumbers,
    Or shame the glory of this summer night
    With tales of warming-pans.
    Has no one here a button-hook,
    With which to probe the vast unsounded deeps
    [_To_ DAN’L.] Of thy poor addled brain.
    It yet may be,
    In some uncharted corner of the void
    That passes for thy mind,
    We find a collar-stud.
    Farewell!                                                 [_Exit._

      DAN’L. Well, he won’t come back again, that I will be bound,
    And as I be catching my death of cold, sitting on this damp ground,
    I’d best be moving. [_Rises._] Ugh! Good-night to ee.

      PIERROT. Good-night!

      COLOMBINE. [_Aside to_ DAN’L.] And, Mr. Arbitrator, if you see
    Your friend Nathan’l, say that Pierrot
    Owes more to him than he will ever know. [_Exit_ DAN’L.

      COLOMBINE. They have gone!

      PIERROT. Ah!

      COLOMBINE. And the night draws on.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      COLOMBINE. You are sad. Why are you sad, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. I cannot tell.

      COLOMBINE. And you are cold. Is it the night air?

      PIERROT. The wind-swept wold
    Is a street of gold,
    So my lady be walking there.

      COLOMBINE. Yet you are sad. See, they have gone and will not
    come again.

      PIERROT. So love may vanish too,
    And of his chain no link remain
    To tell the way he flew.

      COLOMBINE. Love, as the skylark, soars into that Heaven where’t
    fain would be.

      PIERROT. And singing still, returns. Time was when you, with
    Harlequin, would revel till the cold grey dawn came in.

      COLOMBINE. Light loves sometime were pleasant, but to-night the
    face of love seems changed. No more will stray this wandering heart
    of mine.

      PIERROT. Are you not sorry, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. Sorry for what, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. For loss of Harlequin.

      COLOMBINE. Harlequin is very clever but he talks of what he does
    not know, and promises what is not his to give. Cleverness is not
    everything, Pierrot. The mind is like a garden full of flowers, but
        The heart is a little house,
        With windows facing southerly;
        By which a pathway winds.
        And there, behind the blinds,
        We sit and wait,
        Watching, waiting for what?
        We know not.

    The garden is a pleasant place in summer, but when it is winter, we
    seek the fireside of the little house.

      PIERROT. Yet you are fond of gardens and pretty flowers, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. What flowers grow
          In your garden, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. My garden is full of the flowers,
          My mother planted for me;
          Curious, old-world flowers,
          Thyme, lavender, rosemary.
          Planted in days gone by.
          And, though no gardener I,
          As the shadows fall, I tend them all;
          Watering, pruning there.
          Am I happy in my lot?
          I know not.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. And there is the little house, Pierrot.

      PIERROT. Ah, yes there is the little house.
          Do you remember when
          You peeped through the pane, and then
          Went on your way again?
          Out of my sight, although,
          I beckoned you as you passed,
          And sat at my window mournfully.
          But you came again at last.
          And, seeing you come, I said;
          “The flowers in my garden are dead,
          So will she have no more of me.”

    COLOMBINE. I am knocking at the door, Pierrot.
          Knocking and waiting there,
          For the sound of a step on the stair.
          Will you open to me, Pierrot?

                                [PIERROT’S _answer may be taken in the
                                  affirmative. As they sit together, it
                                  grows dark._

[Illustration]

      PIERROT. [_Rising._] Come dear, and let us go,
    Together, hand in hand,
    Into that sun-lit land,
    Where life and love are things inseparable.
    Where, beneath cloudless skies,
    The happy are the wise,
    And none reprove the glory of a love they may not understand.

                                                     [_Exit together._
                          [_It becomes quite dark_: DAN’L _and an_ OLD
                            MAN _pass slowly across the stage, carrying
                            lanterns, and peering cautiously into the
                            blackness of the night_.

      THE OLD MAN. You was dreaming, Dan’l. That’s about the size of it.

      DAN’L. And I tells ee I wur as wide awake as you be. Us had been
    sitting over-long by the clump, and all of a sudden I looks up and
    sees a fairy. “Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l,” I sez, “be I dreaming or
    be I cracked?”

                              [_They pass off, and the curtain falls._


                                FINIS

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                             OTHER VERSES




                            THE MARIONETTE


        Man is merely a marionette
          On invisible wires suspended.
        And it’s just as well he shouldn’t forget
            That Fate the showman is in the wings,
            Working the business and pulling the strings
        Till his turn is over and ended.

        Man is merely a figure on strings,
          By the glare of the footlights blinded.
        And the wonderful way he dances and sings
            Is not unlikely to fill his mind
            With a great contempt for the Power behind,
        Till suddenly he’s reminded.

        Man is the cream of an idle jest,
          A smile on the face of sorrow.
        A sad peculiar figure at best;
            Willing to sacrifice every day,
            Breaking his heart in the hope of play
        On a problematical morrow.




                          A LETTER FROM HOME


        I’ve a letter from home to-day;
        A letter from home to say
        That they’re cutting the trees in the Priory Wood,
        That lambing is over and crops are good.
        Quite the usual thing, be it understood,
        Is my letter from home, to-day.

        I’ve a letter from home, to-day;
        A letter from far away,
        Bidding me ever to bear in mind
        The dear old friends I have left behind.
        But I’m not of the quickly forgetting kind,
        Dear letter from home, to-day!

        In my letter from home, to-day;
        Is a postscript, just to say
        “No doubt you’ll be very much grieved to hear
        That the girl who stayed at the Grange last year,
        Is dead, and was yesterday buried here.”
        And the world has ended, to-day.




                           THE EXPLANATION


                How do I know I love you?
                Why, because
                When you’re away, d’ye see,
                I kind o’ wanders lonesome like
                An’ frets,
                ’Cause you’re not there with me.
                An’ when I meet you by the stile
                At night,
                And not a soul to see,
                I scarce durst speak to you because
                You’re you, an’ I’m just me.




                              MEMORANDA


                In your Book of Memory,
                Set aside no page for me.
                Do not write our friendship there,
                But, if you’ve the time to spare,
                Scribble just this hurried line:
                “He was once a friend of mine.”

                Blot it very carefully,
                Turn the page that none may see.
                Life goes singing down the way
                Different ballads every day.
                Other pages open fair,
                Set new tales of friendship there.

                And the day will come maybe,
                When that hurried line of me;
                Seen by chance a moment’s space,
                Will recall a vanished face,
                And a memory sweeter than
                Many written pages can.




                      LOVE, LAUGHTER, AND AFTER


            The ruinous cottage, the broken latch;
            The cold stone floor and the dripping thatch.
            The ripe red lips of the girl who stands
            Holding her lover’s hands.

            The gay Casino, the fancy ball;
            The twinkling lights of the crowded hall.
            The cool sweet air of the terrace dim,
            Love and laughter and--him.

            The pitiful pageant that follows soon;
            The music hall and the cheap saloon.
            The sad procession, the coffee stall.
            The river that ends it all.




                             TH’ COORTIN’


                ’Tis just about a wik ago,
                  Or mebbe two, or theresabout,
                As I axed Kate why ur an’ Joe
                  Was seed together waalking out;
                Whenas, fur nigh upon a year,
                ’Twur I as had been coortin’ ur.

                “Why, laws-a-mussey, Bill,” ur sez,
                  “Fur certain sure ye must allow
                Us two caan’t alluz spend our days
                  The same as us be doin’ now.
                Ye’d better wed wi’ one ye doan’t
                Than waalk wi’ one ye do, as woan’t.”

                I cudden zackly understand
                  What ’twur as she was drivin’ at,
                Until I cotched ur by the hand
                  And took a peep ’erneath ur hat.
                Wur what I see surprised I so,
                  I gi’ed ur kiss, an’ whispered low:
                “Ye’d better wed the feller who
                Has alluz bin in luv wi’ you.”
                And that’s just what ur means to do.




                              AGREEMENT

                    Oyez! Oyez! Behold we state
                    The rules of this our Syndicate.


              Let it be granted first of all,
              That you are not so young and small
              As foolish people would suppose,
              From your long hair and shorter clothes.

              Item the second, please agree
              To just the opposite in me.
              For would the wisest man alive
              Imagine I was twenty-five?

              This done, folk cannot make a fuss,
              Or say that we’re preposterous.
              For you become, as all may see,
              A chaperone in charge of me.

              Thirdly, this reservation’s made,
              The Syndicate’s too old and staid
              To ride (though you’ll object no doubt)
              In swinging boat and roundabout.

              Fourthly, the world’s a dear old place,
              So always keep a smiling face.
              It suits you best, and as to that,
              So does pink chiffon in your hat.

              Lastly, lest envious folk combine
              To wreck your Syndicate, and mine,
              My autograph is here affixed,
              Written in blood and water mixed.

       _P.S._ It may not look like blood to you
              But recollect my blood is blue.




                             THE BURYIN’


                The mists be on the river bed,
                The roses all be gone;
                And here be I, about to die,
                Wi’ harvest coming on.
                Dear Lord, I’ve trapsed some weary miles,
                I’ll be main glad to rest awhiles.

                The folk’ll soon be in the fields,
                A-getting in the grain.
                For most of those, the time I’ve chose
                Be awkerd in the main.
                Though not so bad, ’tis sure, for they
                As be a-working by the day.

                September be a better month
                For all the carter men;
                And when I die don’t signify,
                So let I bide till then.
                The wagons’ll be standing by,
                And there’ll be time to bury I.




                          A ZONG TO ZING-OH!


            When the zun beyond the Beacon be a-zettin’
            And everything’s as quiet as can be,
            By the gate to varmur’s meddy,
            That old gate zo vurm and zteddy,
            You be pretty zure uv vindin’ Jim and me.

            When the mists along the valley be uprisin’
            And the nightingale’s a-zingin’ in the tree;
            When the peewits be a-zquawkin’
            Uz don’t waste no time a-talkin’
            Time’s a vasty zight too short sez Jim an’ me

            With the honeyzuckle zcent zo thick as treacle,
            And the chestnut blossoms droppin’ onto we;
            As us zets zo close together,
            Why zometimes I wonders whether
            Jim ull zet that close in Paradise to me.

            When the clocks down in the village be a-strikin’
            And darkness comes a-creepin’ up the lea,
            Then, though us be zeldom ready,
            Us must leave old varmur’s meddy,
            Or the volk ull all be wonderin’ where us be.




                                 SONG


            Long ago,
            (How long ago I really don’t know;)
            A kingfisher lived in a valley of green,
            The finest kingfisher that ever was seen--
            In that little green valley I know.

            Silent and slow
            All in a row, buttercups grow.
            One day the kingfisher selected his queen,
            And the bride wore a costume of purple and green
            ’Neath the willows that stand in a row.

            Heigho!
            (As the years go, still the streams flow)
            The whole of this summer they haven’t been seen,
            And a wood-pecker reigns in that valley serene.
            Where they’ve gone to I really don’t know.




                              PHILOSOPHY


                When I was young, in days gone by,
                I smoked Wild Woodbines on the sly.
                They made me ill, but what of that?
                ’Twas nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                If I had shirked that pallid brow
                I couldn’t smoke Havanas now.

                The only girl I ever kissed,
                Both found and left an optimist.
                She jilted me, but even that
                Was nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                I’ve such a cozy little den,
                And know a lot of married men.

                And now, although I’m getting stout,
                And though my hair is falling out,
                And people call me old and fat,
                There’s nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                Although I am a perfect fright,
                I don’t look bad by candle light.




                               FORFEITS


                You fail to catch the trencher spun
                And, later, when the game is done,
                The lady who collects the fees
                Demands a forfeit, if you please.
                You find a penny, grimed and black,
                And hope that you may get it back.

                You sit in speechless misery,
                And wonder what your fate will be,
                Until, within that giggling ring,
                You have to claim the wretched thing;
                Then sally forth upon your quest,
                To kiss the one you love the best.

                You don’t appreciate the fun,
                But curb a wild desire to run;
                Then seek a matron staid and stout,
                And drag the willing victim out;
                Because, of course, it wouldn’t do
                To kiss the girl you wanted to.




                             THE REVIVAL


            Take me away, for I will see no more;
            It was but yesterday I saw the play before,
            The day on which my dear and I were wed--
            Your mother, child--your mother who is dead.
            Why did you bring me here to see a play
            Which she and I saw only yesterday?




                         A PATRON OF THE ARTS


                    I knew a lady once I did,
                    Who lived away at Pontypridd;
                    She liked my verses very much,
                    And said I had the lyric touch.

                    She used to ask me round to lunch,
                    And say I ought to edit “Punch,”
                    As Owen S. and Francis B.,
                    Were amateurs compared to me.

                    Last week I met her in a batch
                    Of lunatics at Colney Hatch,
                    And heard she always spoke of me
                    As far surpassing Calverley.




                              CRITICISM


                A simple poet on a time,
                Resolved to write a simple rhyme.
                His verse was pleasing to the ear;
                He also made his meaning clear.

                The critics glanced at it, and said
                Such rubbish they had never read.
                A point on which they did agree,
                With touching unanimity.

                The simple poet took his lay,
                And turned it round the other way.
                Shuffled the sentences about,
                And took a dozen commas out.

                The critics took the volume, and
                Read, marked--and failed to understand.
                Then fell upon their stomachs flat,
                This prodigy to marvel at.




                           TREASON AND PLOT


                When I am very, very rich,
                  And very famous, too,
                I’ll take a cab to Regent’s Park,
                  And walk into the Zoo
                With quite a consequential air,
                For I shall be the richest there.

                And in a lordly way I’ll take
                  A shilling from my purse,
                And buy the biggest rattle-snake
                  To carry home to Nurse,
                And, as she’s very short of breath,
                Perhaps ’twill frighten her to death.




                        THE POPPY AND THE POET


                Like poppies in the golden corn,
                  The poet’s race is run;
                Each strives alike to gain the ear;
                  The poppy from the sun
                Borrows more radiance than gold--
                A poet’s much the same, I’m told.

                But still these differences appear
                  When everything is said;
                The poet’s leaves, I greatly fear,
                  Are very seldom read.
                Poppies but borrow from the sun--
                A poet will from anyone.




                              EL DORADO


                He sought it through the golden isles
                Of Once Upon a Time.
                In fabled fields of Might Have Been
                He heard its distant chime.
                He saw, mid Dreamland’s mystic glades,
                Its turrets from afar;
                And found it in the valley, where
                The deepest shadows are.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


The Project Gutenberg eBook of Colombine a fantasy
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Colombine a fantasy
        and other verses

Author: Reginald Arkell

Illustrator: Frederick Carter

Release date: June 19, 2025 [eBook #76341]

Language: English

Original publication: London: Benn and Cronin, Ltd, 1911

Credits: Carol Brown, Charlene Taylor and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***

Transcriber’s Note:

Words and phrases in italics are surrounded by underscores, _like
this_.

“ro” was changed to “to” ... desire to run ...




  COLOMBINE

  A FANTASY

  AND OTHER VERSES




  _LONDON_
  BENN AND CRONIN, LTD.
  CRAVEN HOUSE, KINGSWAY, W.C.
  1911




       _Copyright: Entered at Stationers’ Hall, December 1911.
                  Acting Rights strictly Reserved._




[Illustration: COLOMBINE.]




[Illustration:

  COLOMBINE
  A FANTASY

  BY REGINALD ARKELL

  WITH SOME DRAWINGS
  BY FREDERICK CARTER.]




[Illustration]




                            AUTHOR’S NOTE

“COLOMBINE” was first performed at Clavier Hall, Hanover Square, W.,
on Thursday, 7th December 1911, with the following cast:

    Dan’l (an old man)         MR. B. BUTLER.
    Nathan’l (a boy)           MR. A. E. FILMER.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Harlequin                  MR. REGINALD BACH.
    Pierrot                    MR. MARK HANNAM.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Colombine                  MISS ETHEL EVANS.

    The play was produced by MR. A. E. FILMER.


                                SCENE

  A ROMAN CAMP on the summit of Cissbury Beacon in the South Downs.
     A fairy ring occupies the foreground. All round are beech trees.
     The time is evening.




[Illustration]




                               PROLOGUE


    There are circles of green upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the Pharisees dance--so they say;
    Revelling merrily round it until
    The dawn over Ditchling is gray.
    And travellers lost upon Cissbury Hill--
    (Pixy-led folk who stray)
    Seated on toad-stools, with fairy folk sup,
    _But here, in Haymarket, the roadway is up_.

    There are circles of beech upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the leaves of a lifetime decay;
    Hiding the memories, lingering still,
    Of Rome’s indisputable sway.
    And under the beech-leaves of Cissbury Hill,
    Throbs the heart of the downland alway.
    While dreaming of chieftains and warriors in woad,
    _You’re lighting your pipe in the Charing Cross Road_.




[Illustration]




                              COLOMBINE


     _An old man and a boy are seen talking; both are labourers.
                 The old man, who is seated, speaks_:

      DAN’L. Well, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. There’s little use in stopping here much longer.

      NATHAN’L. Not as I can see.

      DAN’L. Like my old eyes, the sun don’t grow no stronger.

      NATHAN’L. And I wants my tea.

      DAN’L. Do ee, lad?

      NATHAN’L. Ah, main bad.

      DAN’L. Which means ’tis time to go, I reckons.

      NATHAN’L. That’s a proposition as I seconds.

      DAN’L. Come on then, let’s be moving. Tip us yer daddle.

      NATHAN’L. All of a sudden you be in a mortal caddle.
    I wants to hear the finish of that yarn
    As you was spinning down at Tranter’s Barn.
    A peck of troubles it was all about.
    I wants to know how everything turned out.

      DAN’L. You wants your tea, that’s what you wants, my son.

      NATHAN’L. There’s time enough for tea when you be done.

      DAN’L. Well, though ’tis little enough I read,
    I sid in a story-book years ago,
    (Though mind, Nathan’l, there beant no need
    To be letting on as I told ee so)
    That all the troubles as worrits a man
    Was locked in a box when the world began.

    And there no doubt they’d ha’ bid till now,
    If the dummel soul as had got the key,
    Hadn’t got mixed up with a maid somehow
    And gone and handed it over to she.
    And what do ee fancy the maiden did?
    Darn me, Nathan’l, ur lifted the lid.

[Illustration]

    And all they troubles come trooping out,
    Like hens from a chicken-run might have done.
    For the maiden fancied without a doubt,
    They’d go back in the evening like, one by one.
    But time’s got to settle a few more clocks,
    Afore they troubles goes back to their box.

    Straight, Nathan’l, ’tis near enough
    To make a methody parson swear.
    And every time as I reads such stuff,
    I goes so red as yon moon up there.
    To think of the trouble ur brought on we--
    I reckon I owes my old gal to she.

      NATHAN’L. Is it true, do ee think, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, mebbe not, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee think, Dan’l--she let out the lot?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe not.

      NATHAN’L. Sounds like a fairy story to me.

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe, mebbe.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee believe in fairies, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Can’t be sure as I do, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, I don’t anyway, and that’s a fact.

                          _Enter_ COLOMBINE.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l, be I dreaming or be I cracked?

      NATHAN’L. My goodness, Dan’l, I do believe as she’s a fairy....

      DAN’L. Here, come into the shadow of these trees,
    And give that clacking tongue of yourn a rest.

      NATHAN’L. Oh, this be more wonderful than all the things I ever
          guessed.

      DAN’L. And it means _summat_ that you _may_ depend.

      NATHAN’L. See, where she walks, the grass don’t even bend
    Beneath her feet. She be a fairy, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. I wish you’d hold your clacking tongue, Nathan’l.

                      [COLOMBINE, _hearing a noise, pauses to listen_.

      COLOMBINE. Who’s there? The daylight fades. I cannot see.

      DAN’L. You go.

      NATHAN’L.     No, you.

      DAN’L.                So please you, Miss, ’tis we.

      COLOMBINE. Good evening, Sirs.

      DAN’L.                Our best respects to ee.
    A goodish evening to be sure, but getting dark and cold.
    Time gals like you was safe abed, if I might make so bold.

      COLOMBINE. Old man, the night has but begun.

      DAN’L. The day be done.

      COLOMBINE. The moon has scarcely risen yet.

      DAN’L. The sun have set.

      COLOMBINE. The sun his wandering footsteps stays to greet the crescent moon.
    The nightjar and the nightingale will both be singing soon.

      DAN’L. Us don’t set much store by nightingales in these parts,
            and as for nightjars! Oh lor, us shoots they.
          Give I a linnet now,
          A-sitting on a bough;
          As sings his message to the sun,
          And goes to sleep when day be done,
          Respectable like!

      NATHAN’L. [_Coming forward._]
          Queer things,
          These here rings
          You sees in the grass
          When you pass.
          They say ’tis where Pharisees dances at night!
          Be that right?

      COLOMBINE. Quite right; yet once the circle that you see,
    Saw war and tumult.

      DAN’L.           Lawks-a-mussey me!

      COLOMBINE. The Roman legions camped on yonder brow,
    And built the road you stand on.

      NATHAN’L.                     Did they now!

      COLOMBINE. The sun would sink out yonder in the west,
    And shine upon their helmets.

      DAN’L.                      Well I’m blest!

      COLOMBINE. The very spot where Julius Caesar sat,
    Lies just behind those beeches.

      NATHAN’L.                    Think of that!

      COLOMBINE. In yonder barrow treasures rare lie hid.
    Dig deep to find them.

      DAN’L.               Well I never did!

      NATHAN’L. But when did all this
                Happen, Miss?
                How many years ago,
                I’d like to know?

      COLOMBINE. Roughly two thousand, on this very spot.

      DAN’L. Lor! What a memory you must have got.

      COLOMBINE. [_To_ NATHAN’L.] But tell me please;
    Beneath these trees,
    What travellers come, and whither bound?
    Do still these ancient heights resound
    With martial music and the tramp of men?

      NATHAN’L. Us gets a hurdy-gurdy now and then,
    And once a clown on stilts went through the wood;
    And oh! he could catch pennies, that he could.

      COLOMBINE. But in what fashion do you pass your days?

      NATHAN’L. I kill the time in various sorts of ways.
    Scaring the rooks as settles on the corn;
    Helping the shepherd when the lambs be born.
    Talking to Dan’l about these here rings,
    And wondering about a power of things.
    As don’t concern nobody, I suppose.
    But then, you must do summat, goodness knows.

      COLOMBINE. Of course. ’Tis lonely here without a doubt.
    What are the things you’re wondering about
    To-day?

[Illustration]

      NATHAN’L. Such things as surely never was.
    Such things as surely no one ever does.
    And yet, of nothing, for they moves so fast,
    You finds as you’ve forgotten them at last.
    Just like a dream they passes and be gone.
    Just like a dream they passes....

      COLOMBINE.                      Yes, go on.

      NATHAN’L. Just like a dream, for though I thinks a lot,
    Before they’re rightly thought they’re clean forgot.
    Though somehow, now I sits and talks to you,
    I keeps remembering things I never knew.
    Just like as though somebody slammed a door,
    When you was going where you’d been before;
    Leaving you standing on the further side,
    Wondering at what was happening inside.
    Whether the folk you knew was there or not;
    Whether you really knew, and had forgot;
    Whether you’d been there once when you was small,
    Or whether you was never there at all.
    ’Tis plaguey awkerd, wondering, that it be.
    And now I must be off, I wants my tea.                    [_Exit._

      COLOMBINE. Good-bye. And think sometimes of me.

                           [_Rousing herself from the brown study into
                             which this revelation has thrown her, and
                             addressing_ DAN’L.

    Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. [_Startled._] Eh?

      COLOMBINE. Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. It all depends. Why?

      COLOMBINE. There’s going to be a fight.

      DAN’L. When? Where?

      COLOMBINE. Very soon.
             By the light of the moon.
             On the very stroke of nine.
             All for love of Colombine.

      DAN’L. Shall I fetch a policeman?

      COLOMBINE. A policeman! Dear me, no.

      DAN’L. Who’s going to fight.

      COLOMBINE. Don’t you know?
                             Harlequin and Pierrot.

      DAN’L. Never heard of they.

      COLOMBINE. Won’t it be fun?

      DAN’L. Good fun
                      For the one as gets killed.

      COLOMBINE. But they won’t kill each other. They never do. They’re
    _most_ dependable.

      DAN’L. Have um fought before?

      COLOMBINE. Of course. Hundreds of times.

      DAN’L. Silly young chaps.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. They’re not silly. They’re fighting for me. Don’t you
    understand?

      DAN’L. I fought about a girl once. But only once. It was a long
    time ago.

      COLOMBINE. You’re not romantic. Romance would die if it wasn’t
    for fighting. Romance _is_ fighting.

      DAN’L. Then I’ve had quite enough romance to please me.

      COLOMBINE. All properly constituted love affairs should include
    a fight. Love without fighting is insipid.

      DAN’L. _You_ don’t have to do the fighting. Which of ’em loves
    you the most?

      COLOMBINE. Why, Pierrot, of course.

      DAN’L. Then why don’t you marry him?

      COLOMBINE. And disappoint Harlequin? I couldn’t do that.

      DAN’L. When are you going to decide?

      COLOMBINE. I don’t know. [_On her fingers._] This year, next
    year, some time, never. To-night perhaps.

      DAN’L. One day they’ll get tired of fighting. What then?

      COLOMBINE. Never!

      DAN’L. You’re sure of that?

      COLOMBINE. Oh, yes. Quite sure.

      DAN’L. One of them may get killed.

      COLOMBINE. They wouldn’t be so careless.

      DAN’L. What should you do if one of ’em got killed by accident?

      COLOMBINE. I should be very angry. But you’re very horrid to
    suggest such things. Why don’t you go away?

      DAN’L. Good-bye.

      COLOMBINE. No, stay.

      DAN’L. Well, I’m fond of a fight, I must say.

      COLOMBINE. Hush! They are coming. Quick, behind this tree.

      DAN’L. Anywhere in the background’s good enough for me.

      COLOMBINE. A fight, a fight! And all for love of me.

                    [_The orchestra plays quietly the Soldiers’ Chorus
                        and snatches of other martial refrains. The
                        two watchers betray tense excitement._
                        HARLEQUIN _and_ PIERROT _enter arm in arm.
                        Any differences they may have had are evidently
                        settled._ COLOMBINE _looks on in astonishment_.

[Illustration]

      HARLEQUIN. Mind you, as girls go, Colombine’s one of the best.

      PIERROT. Ah yes.

      HARLEQUIN. But nothing to fight about.

      PIERROT. [_Without conviction._] No.

      HARLEQUIN. And fighting’s going out of fashion. There’s no doubt
    about that.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. The whole trend of modern thought is opposed to it.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. None of the best people do it.

      PIERROT. I suppose not.

      HARLEQUIN. And one must be in the movement.

      PIERROT. Of course.

      HARLEQUIN. Arbitration’s the thing nowadays.

      PIERROT. What’s that?

      HARLEQUIN. Why, you each talk until you’re out of breath, and
    the one with most breath wins.

      PIERROT. [_Taking a deep breath._] That seems a good idea.

      HARLEQUIN. It is.

      PIERROT. But what will Colombine say if we don’t fight? She loves
    to watch us fight.

      HARLEQUIN. My dear chap, we must be firm. Adopt your point of
    view, and stick to it in the face of all opposition.

      COLOMBINE. [_Advancing._] Aren’t you going to fight?

      PIERROT. [_Kindly._] Not to-night.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! Why not?

      HARLEQUIN. Well, we’ve got
                 Other fish to fry,
                 That’s why.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! do fight!

      PIERROT. Not to-night.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, my dear girl, do listen to reason. You will admit,
    I suppose, that the most elementary point about a duel is to spit
    your opponent through the gizzard.

      COLOMBINE. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. Well, I haven’t got a gizzard, and what’s the use of
    trying to spit a man’s gizzard, if he hasn’t got a gizzard to spit?
    You must be reasonable.

      COLOMBINE. How do you know you haven’t got a gizzard?

      HARLEQUIN. We don’t know for certain, we assume.

      PIERROT. You’ve only to look at him to see there isn’t room.

      COLOMBINE. But why the gizzard? What does it matter _where_ you
    spit him so long as you do spit him?

      HARLEQUIN. For heaven’s sake, my dear girl, don’t preach such
    revolutionary doctrines. There is a certain etiquette to be
    observed, even in a battle.

      COLOMBINE. [_After a pause._] But it’s quite simple. You spit
    Pierrot. He’s got a gizzard, I suppose.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. Pierrot consulted a phrenologist....

      PIERROT. Soothsayer!

      HARLEQUIN. Sorry--soothsayer, who said he was born to be hung....

      PIERROT. Hanged!

      HARLEQUIN. Hanged, and so of course, he doesn’t want to run the
    risk of disappointing him.

      COLOMBINE. Very considerate, I’m sure.
    I think you’re absolutely _horrid_, there.               [_Cries._

      HARLEQUIN. [_To_ PIERROT.] Don’t waver, both together.

      HARLEQUIN and PIERROT. We don’t care
          Tuppence what you think or say,
          We talked the matter over, here to-day;
          And arbitration is the only way.

      COLOMBINE. You’re frightened.

      HARLEQUIN. Don’t be silly. Frightened! Me!

      COLOMBINE. Well, who’s your arbitrator going to be?

      HARLEQUIN. [_Taken aback._] Why yes, we must have someone, I
        suppose.
    But who’s to do it?

      PIERROT.          Goodness only knows!
    There’s not a single person within call.

    COLOMBINE. [_Clapping her hands._] Hurrah! You’ll have to fight,
      then, after all.

                       [_There is a pause, during which_ PIERROT _and_
                       HARLEQUIN _look at each other in dismay_.
                       COLOMBINE _on the other hand claps her
                       hands and pirouettes round the stage. Then_
                       HARLEQUIN _sees_ DAN’L _and drags him forward
                       at the same time speaking in asides_.

      HARLEQUIN. What’s your name?

      DAN’L. Much the same
            As it’s always bin,
            Week out, week in,
            This seventy year and more.

      HARLEQUIN. Good! We want you to arbitrate.
    You’re the very man.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey. I’ll do it if I can.

      HARLEQUIN. There’s much gold.
               Wealth untold!
               If you only do
               As I tell you to.

      DAN’L. Fire away!

      HARLEQUIN. Until to-day, Pierrot and I have been in the habit of
    engaging in mortal combat for the hand of Colombine. Owing to the
    fact that up to the present neither has had the decency to get
    killed, and as a result of the wave of anti-militarism that has
    swept over the country, we have decided to fall back on arbitration.
    And you are the arbitrator. You understand?

      DAN’L. No!

      HARLEQUIN. Then you’re very thick.

      DAN’L. You speaks too quick
    And the way you keeps hopping about makes me fair mazed.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. One of us is to marry
    Colombine, and you’ve to decide which it’s to be.
    Do you see?

      DAN’L. No.

      HARLEQUIN. But it’s quite simple.

      DAN’L. Maybe. But how do I know which it’s to be?

      HARLEQUIN. I’ll let you into a secret. It’s me!

      DAN’L. Oh! And if I goes and sez ’tis you,
    What’s yon chap in the white trousers going to do?

      HARLEQUIN. Never mind him. He’s a fool.

      DAN’L. It seems it don’t much matter what I say;
    I’m bound to upset one of ye either way.
    Oh! very well.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Pierrot! Gather round.

                        [_They sit in a semicircle_; COLOMBINE _and_
                          DAN’L _in the centre_.

      DAN’L. I shall catch my death of cold, sitting on this damp
    ground.

                        [_There is silence, each waiting for the other
                          to speak._

      COLOMBINE. You don’t seem very anxious, either of you.

      DAN’L. Who goes first?

      HARLEQUIN. If I don’t say something, and quickly, I shall burst.

      DAN’L. Then you’d best get started. [_Aside._] How long will it take?

      HARLEQUIN. Until it’s ended.

      DAN’L. Cut it short for goodness’ sake.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Let me take you away from these lonely hills.
    Into the heart of the world where lies the Land of Yesterday. There
    are stored all the happy hours that you have known. You shall live
    them all over again, Colombine--every one. I will lead you by secret
    paths, through the dim woods of yesternight until we stand together
    in the sunlight of the days that have been. Walking backward through
    the years, we will collect those dear lost delights, of which only
    the memory remains. From all that has gone before, it shall be yours
    to pick and choose, and no To-morrow shall throw its ominous shade
    before. The past shall deliver up its treasures to your hand; regrets
    shall be ended, and happiness shall be sure. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. No, Harlequin. The road to your Land of Yesterday is
    longer than you know, and there is no going back. Let us still take
    from the past our memories and our dreams, but do not ask for more,
    lest even these be denied.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: THE GATEWAY OF HAPPINESS]

      HARLEQUIN. As you will. Then it is to the future that we must
    turn. Colombine, far from here, set in a desert of hot sand, is a
    crystal, so large, that all the giants of Africa could not stir
    it the thickness of a hair. Peering into its depths, you may read
    your future to the end of time. A day, a week, a year, shall be no
    barrier to the vision of the mind. You may read all the riddles of
    the universe, and there will remain nothing that you do not know. You
    shall see your face as it will be when twice twenty harvest moons
    have waned, and fifty summer suns have set. And I, alone, can point
    you the way. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. You promise much, Harlequin. It may well be that in some
    spot remote from the haunts of men, the Mirror of Fate yet lies hid.
    And you may find it. Who knows! But this, at least, is certain; the
    path will be difficult and the journey long. Would you not tire by
    the way, Harlequin? I think you would. [_Pause._] And, it is not in
    distant deserts I would seek. In the woods of home, hearts may thrill
    to the eloquent silences of the night. [HARLEQUIN _rises_.] All the
    secrets of the world might be ours, did we but care to learn the
    simple language of the nightingale. Across the moonlight, the shadows
    of the branches trace unforgettable things. Great secrets tremble on
    the lips of the leaves, and mortals grope vainly in the daylight for
    things seen most plainly in the dark.

      DAN’L. [_Coughing to draw attention to himself._]
    I’ve allus noticed, in whatever parts I med ha’ bin,
    A maid in love have allus got a fairish yarn to spin.
    And in whatever parts I’ve bin, I’ve allus noticed too,
    The foolish lads do take it all for gospel, that um do.
    But though I’ve kept good notice in whatever parts I was,
    I’ve never heard a maid to spin a yarn like this un does.
    Ur be a marvel, that ur be; I hope as ur won’t try
    When ur’s tired of you two fellows here, to spin no yarns to I;
    For fools be mostly biggest fools when um be old and grey.
    And if I went along o’ she, what _ud_ my missus say.
    Next man?

      COLOMBINE. Come, Pierrot!

      PIERROT. [_With an effort._] Colombine!

      COLOMBINE. Yes, Pierrot.

      HARLEQUIN. Go on!

      DAN’L. Let’s hear what you’ve got to say, young fellow.

      PIERROT. There is nothing to say.

      COLOMBINE. Nothing to say!

      PIERROT. Save that I love you, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. And is that so small a thing, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. But I have nothing to offer you, nothing.

      COLOMBINE. [_Softly._] Save yourself.

      HARLEQUIN. I have always said that Pierrot was master of sounding
    silences. The sweetest singer of unsung songs, his eloquent nothings
    go shrieking through the void. He scorns to desecrate the virgin
    purity of his foolscap with the written word. What love is that which
    dare not tell its love? Come, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. See, Harlequin, here is a beech nut. You shake it, yet
    there is no sound. Is it full? Is it empty?

      HARLEQUIN. Who can say?

      DAN’L. Likewise, young Nathan’l he picks up a match-box last week,
    and throws it away because there was no sound when he rattles en
    [_To_ HARLEQUIN.] And what do you think?

      HARLEQUIN. I couldn’t say.

      DAN’L. It was so full all the time as not to rattle at all.

      HARLEQUIN. [_Scornfully._] Matches! ye gods! Let’s talk of cucumbers,
    Or shame the glory of this summer night
    With tales of warming-pans.
    Has no one here a button-hook,
    With which to probe the vast unsounded deeps
    [_To_ DAN’L.] Of thy poor addled brain.
    It yet may be,
    In some uncharted corner of the void
    That passes for thy mind,
    We find a collar-stud.
    Farewell!                                                 [_Exit._

      DAN’L. Well, he won’t come back again, that I will be bound,
    And as I be catching my death of cold, sitting on this damp ground,
    I’d best be moving. [_Rises._] Ugh! Good-night to ee.

      PIERROT. Good-night!

      COLOMBINE. [_Aside to_ DAN’L.] And, Mr. Arbitrator, if you see
    Your friend Nathan’l, say that Pierrot
    Owes more to him than he will ever know. [_Exit_ DAN’L.

      COLOMBINE. They have gone!

      PIERROT. Ah!

      COLOMBINE. And the night draws on.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      COLOMBINE. You are sad. Why are you sad, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. I cannot tell.

      COLOMBINE. And you are cold. Is it the night air?

      PIERROT. The wind-swept wold
    Is a street of gold,
    So my lady be walking there.

      COLOMBINE. Yet you are sad. See, they have gone and will not
    come again.

      PIERROT. So love may vanish too,
    And of his chain no link remain
    To tell the way he flew.

      COLOMBINE. Love, as the skylark, soars into that Heaven where’t
    fain would be.

      PIERROT. And singing still, returns. Time was when you, with
    Harlequin, would revel till the cold grey dawn came in.

      COLOMBINE. Light loves sometime were pleasant, but to-night the
    face of love seems changed. No more will stray this wandering heart
    of mine.

      PIERROT. Are you not sorry, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. Sorry for what, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. For loss of Harlequin.

      COLOMBINE. Harlequin is very clever but he talks of what he does
    not know, and promises what is not his to give. Cleverness is not
    everything, Pierrot. The mind is like a garden full of flowers, but
        The heart is a little house,
        With windows facing southerly;
        By which a pathway winds.
        And there, behind the blinds,
        We sit and wait,
        Watching, waiting for what?
        We know not.

    The garden is a pleasant place in summer, but when it is winter, we
    seek the fireside of the little house.

      PIERROT. Yet you are fond of gardens and pretty flowers, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. What flowers grow
          In your garden, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. My garden is full of the flowers,
          My mother planted for me;
          Curious, old-world flowers,
          Thyme, lavender, rosemary.
          Planted in days gone by.
          And, though no gardener I,
          As the shadows fall, I tend them all;
          Watering, pruning there.
          Am I happy in my lot?
          I know not.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. And there is the little house, Pierrot.

      PIERROT. Ah, yes there is the little house.
          Do you remember when
          You peeped through the pane, and then
          Went on your way again?
          Out of my sight, although,
          I beckoned you as you passed,
          And sat at my window mournfully.
          But you came again at last.
          And, seeing you come, I said;
          “The flowers in my garden are dead,
          So will she have no more of me.”

    COLOMBINE. I am knocking at the door, Pierrot.
          Knocking and waiting there,
          For the sound of a step on the stair.
          Will you open to me, Pierrot?

                                [PIERROT’S _answer may be taken in the
                                  affirmative. As they sit together, it
                                  grows dark._

[Illustration]

      PIERROT. [_Rising._] Come dear, and let us go,
    Together, hand in hand,
    Into that sun-lit land,
    Where life and love are things inseparable.
    Where, beneath cloudless skies,
    The happy are the wise,
    And none reprove the glory of a love they may not understand.

                                                     [_Exit together._
                          [_It becomes quite dark_: DAN’L _and an_ OLD
                            MAN _pass slowly across the stage, carrying
                            lanterns, and peering cautiously into the
                            blackness of the night_.

      THE OLD MAN. You was dreaming, Dan’l. That’s about the size of it.

      DAN’L. And I tells ee I wur as wide awake as you be. Us had been
    sitting over-long by the clump, and all of a sudden I looks up and
    sees a fairy. “Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l,” I sez, “be I dreaming or
    be I cracked?”

                              [_They pass off, and the curtain falls._


                                FINIS

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                             OTHER VERSES




                            THE MARIONETTE


        Man is merely a marionette
          On invisible wires suspended.
        And it’s just as well he shouldn’t forget
            That Fate the showman is in the wings,
            Working the business and pulling the strings
        Till his turn is over and ended.

        Man is merely a figure on strings,
          By the glare of the footlights blinded.
        And the wonderful way he dances and sings
            Is not unlikely to fill his mind
            With a great contempt for the Power behind,
        Till suddenly he’s reminded.

        Man is the cream of an idle jest,
          A smile on the face of sorrow.
        A sad peculiar figure at best;
            Willing to sacrifice every day,
            Breaking his heart in the hope of play
        On a problematical morrow.




                          A LETTER FROM HOME


        I’ve a letter from home to-day;
        A letter from home to say
        That they’re cutting the trees in the Priory Wood,
        That lambing is over and crops are good.
        Quite the usual thing, be it understood,
        Is my letter from home, to-day.

        I’ve a letter from home, to-day;
        A letter from far away,
        Bidding me ever to bear in mind
        The dear old friends I have left behind.
        But I’m not of the quickly forgetting kind,
        Dear letter from home, to-day!

        In my letter from home, to-day;
        Is a postscript, just to say
        “No doubt you’ll be very much grieved to hear
        That the girl who stayed at the Grange last year,
        Is dead, and was yesterday buried here.”
        And the world has ended, to-day.




                           THE EXPLANATION


                How do I know I love you?
                Why, because
                When you’re away, d’ye see,
                I kind o’ wanders lonesome like
                An’ frets,
                ’Cause you’re not there with me.
                An’ when I meet you by the stile
                At night,
                And not a soul to see,
                I scarce durst speak to you because
                You’re you, an’ I’m just me.




                              MEMORANDA


                In your Book of Memory,
                Set aside no page for me.
                Do not write our friendship there,
                But, if you’ve the time to spare,
                Scribble just this hurried line:
                “He was once a friend of mine.”

                Blot it very carefully,
                Turn the page that none may see.
                Life goes singing down the way
                Different ballads every day.
                Other pages open fair,
                Set new tales of friendship there.

                And the day will come maybe,
                When that hurried line of me;
                Seen by chance a moment’s space,
                Will recall a vanished face,
                And a memory sweeter than
                Many written pages can.




                      LOVE, LAUGHTER, AND AFTER


            The ruinous cottage, the broken latch;
            The cold stone floor and the dripping thatch.
            The ripe red lips of the girl who stands
            Holding her lover’s hands.

            The gay Casino, the fancy ball;
            The twinkling lights of the crowded hall.
            The cool sweet air of the terrace dim,
            Love and laughter and--him.

            The pitiful pageant that follows soon;
            The music hall and the cheap saloon.
            The sad procession, the coffee stall.
            The river that ends it all.




                             TH’ COORTIN’


                ’Tis just about a wik ago,
                  Or mebbe two, or theresabout,
                As I axed Kate why ur an’ Joe
                  Was seed together waalking out;
                Whenas, fur nigh upon a year,
                ’Twur I as had been coortin’ ur.

                “Why, laws-a-mussey, Bill,” ur sez,
                  “Fur certain sure ye must allow
                Us two caan’t alluz spend our days
                  The same as us be doin’ now.
                Ye’d better wed wi’ one ye doan’t
                Than waalk wi’ one ye do, as woan’t.”

                I cudden zackly understand
                  What ’twur as she was drivin’ at,
                Until I cotched ur by the hand
                  And took a peep ’erneath ur hat.
                Wur what I see surprised I so,
                  I gi’ed ur kiss, an’ whispered low:
                “Ye’d better wed the feller who
                Has alluz bin in luv wi’ you.”
                And that’s just what ur means to do.




                              AGREEMENT

                    Oyez! Oyez! Behold we state
                    The rules of this our Syndicate.


              Let it be granted first of all,
              That you are not so young and small
              As foolish people would suppose,
              From your long hair and shorter clothes.

              Item the second, please agree
              To just the opposite in me.
              For would the wisest man alive
              Imagine I was twenty-five?

              This done, folk cannot make a fuss,
              Or say that we’re preposterous.
              For you become, as all may see,
              A chaperone in charge of me.

              Thirdly, this reservation’s made,
              The Syndicate’s too old and staid
              To ride (though you’ll object no doubt)
              In swinging boat and roundabout.

              Fourthly, the world’s a dear old place,
              So always keep a smiling face.
              It suits you best, and as to that,
              So does pink chiffon in your hat.

              Lastly, lest envious folk combine
              To wreck your Syndicate, and mine,
              My autograph is here affixed,
              Written in blood and water mixed.

       _P.S._ It may not look like blood to you
              But recollect my blood is blue.




                             THE BURYIN’


                The mists be on the river bed,
                The roses all be gone;
                And here be I, about to die,
                Wi’ harvest coming on.
                Dear Lord, I’ve trapsed some weary miles,
                I’ll be main glad to rest awhiles.

                The folk’ll soon be in the fields,
                A-getting in the grain.
                For most of those, the time I’ve chose
                Be awkerd in the main.
                Though not so bad, ’tis sure, for they
                As be a-working by the day.

                September be a better month
                For all the carter men;
                And when I die don’t signify,
                So let I bide till then.
                The wagons’ll be standing by,
                And there’ll be time to bury I.




                          A ZONG TO ZING-OH!


            When the zun beyond the Beacon be a-zettin’
            And everything’s as quiet as can be,
            By the gate to varmur’s meddy,
            That old gate zo vurm and zteddy,
            You be pretty zure uv vindin’ Jim and me.

            When the mists along the valley be uprisin’
            And the nightingale’s a-zingin’ in the tree;
            When the peewits be a-zquawkin’
            Uz don’t waste no time a-talkin’
            Time’s a vasty zight too short sez Jim an’ me

            With the honeyzuckle zcent zo thick as treacle,
            And the chestnut blossoms droppin’ onto we;
            As us zets zo close together,
            Why zometimes I wonders whether
            Jim ull zet that close in Paradise to me.

            When the clocks down in the village be a-strikin’
            And darkness comes a-creepin’ up the lea,
            Then, though us be zeldom ready,
            Us must leave old varmur’s meddy,
            Or the volk ull all be wonderin’ where us be.




                                 SONG


            Long ago,
            (How long ago I really don’t know;)
            A kingfisher lived in a valley of green,
            The finest kingfisher that ever was seen--
            In that little green valley I know.

            Silent and slow
            All in a row, buttercups grow.
            One day the kingfisher selected his queen,
            And the bride wore a costume of purple and green
            ’Neath the willows that stand in a row.

            Heigho!
            (As the years go, still the streams flow)
            The whole of this summer they haven’t been seen,
            And a wood-pecker reigns in that valley serene.
            Where they’ve gone to I really don’t know.




                              PHILOSOPHY


                When I was young, in days gone by,
                I smoked Wild Woodbines on the sly.
                They made me ill, but what of that?
                ’Twas nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                If I had shirked that pallid brow
                I couldn’t smoke Havanas now.

                The only girl I ever kissed,
                Both found and left an optimist.
                She jilted me, but even that
                Was nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                I’ve such a cozy little den,
                And know a lot of married men.

                And now, although I’m getting stout,
                And though my hair is falling out,
                And people call me old and fat,
                There’s nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                Although I am a perfect fright,
                I don’t look bad by candle light.




                               FORFEITS


                You fail to catch the trencher spun
                And, later, when the game is done,
                The lady who collects the fees
                Demands a forfeit, if you please.
                You find a penny, grimed and black,
                And hope that you may get it back.

                You sit in speechless misery,
                And wonder what your fate will be,
                Until, within that giggling ring,
                You have to claim the wretched thing;
                Then sally forth upon your quest,
                To kiss the one you love the best.

                You don’t appreciate the fun,
                But curb a wild desire to run;
                Then seek a matron staid and stout,
                And drag the willing victim out;
                Because, of course, it wouldn’t do
                To kiss the girl you wanted to.




                             THE REVIVAL


            Take me away, for I will see no more;
            It was but yesterday I saw the play before,
            The day on which my dear and I were wed--
            Your mother, child--your mother who is dead.
            Why did you bring me here to see a play
            Which she and I saw only yesterday?




                         A PATRON OF THE ARTS


                    I knew a lady once I did,
                    Who lived away at Pontypridd;
                    She liked my verses very much,
                    And said I had the lyric touch.

                    She used to ask me round to lunch,
                    And say I ought to edit “Punch,”
                    As Owen S. and Francis B.,
                    Were amateurs compared to me.

                    Last week I met her in a batch
                    Of lunatics at Colney Hatch,
                    And heard she always spoke of me
                    As far surpassing Calverley.




                              CRITICISM


                A simple poet on a time,
                Resolved to write a simple rhyme.
                His verse was pleasing to the ear;
                He also made his meaning clear.

                The critics glanced at it, and said
                Such rubbish they had never read.
                A point on which they did agree,
                With touching unanimity.

                The simple poet took his lay,
                And turned it round the other way.
                Shuffled the sentences about,
                And took a dozen commas out.

                The critics took the volume, and
                Read, marked--and failed to understand.
                Then fell upon their stomachs flat,
                This prodigy to marvel at.




                           TREASON AND PLOT


                When I am very, very rich,
                  And very famous, too,
                I’ll take a cab to Regent’s Park,
                  And walk into the Zoo
                With quite a consequential air,
                For I shall be the richest there.

                And in a lordly way I’ll take
                  A shilling from my purse,
                And buy the biggest rattle-snake
                  To carry home to Nurse,
                And, as she’s very short of breath,
                Perhaps ’twill frighten her to death.




                        THE POPPY AND THE POET


                Like poppies in the golden corn,
                  The poet’s race is run;
                Each strives alike to gain the ear;
                  The poppy from the sun
                Borrows more radiance than gold--
                A poet’s much the same, I’m told.

                But still these differences appear
                  When everything is said;
                The poet’s leaves, I greatly fear,
                  Are very seldom read.
                Poppies but borrow from the sun--
                A poet will from anyone.




                              EL DORADO


                He sought it through the golden isles
                Of Once Upon a Time.
                In fabled fields of Might Have Been
                He heard its distant chime.
                He saw, mid Dreamland’s mystic glades,
                Its turrets from afar;
                And found it in the valley, where
                The deepest shadows are.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


The Project Gutenberg eBook of Colombine a fantasy
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Colombine a fantasy
        and other verses

Author: Reginald Arkell

Illustrator: Frederick Carter

Release date: June 19, 2025 [eBook #76341]

Language: English

Original publication: London: Benn and Cronin, Ltd, 1911

Credits: Carol Brown, Charlene Taylor and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***

Transcriber’s Note:

Words and phrases in italics are surrounded by underscores, _like
this_.

“ro” was changed to “to” ... desire to run ...




  COLOMBINE

  A FANTASY

  AND OTHER VERSES




  _LONDON_
  BENN AND CRONIN, LTD.
  CRAVEN HOUSE, KINGSWAY, W.C.
  1911




       _Copyright: Entered at Stationers’ Hall, December 1911.
                  Acting Rights strictly Reserved._




[Illustration: COLOMBINE.]




[Illustration:

  COLOMBINE
  A FANTASY

  BY REGINALD ARKELL

  WITH SOME DRAWINGS
  BY FREDERICK CARTER.]




[Illustration]




                            AUTHOR’S NOTE

“COLOMBINE” was first performed at Clavier Hall, Hanover Square, W.,
on Thursday, 7th December 1911, with the following cast:

    Dan’l (an old man)         MR. B. BUTLER.
    Nathan’l (a boy)           MR. A. E. FILMER.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Harlequin                  MR. REGINALD BACH.
    Pierrot                    MR. MARK HANNAM.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Colombine                  MISS ETHEL EVANS.

    The play was produced by MR. A. E. FILMER.


                                SCENE

  A ROMAN CAMP on the summit of Cissbury Beacon in the South Downs.
     A fairy ring occupies the foreground. All round are beech trees.
     The time is evening.




[Illustration]




                               PROLOGUE


    There are circles of green upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the Pharisees dance--so they say;
    Revelling merrily round it until
    The dawn over Ditchling is gray.
    And travellers lost upon Cissbury Hill--
    (Pixy-led folk who stray)
    Seated on toad-stools, with fairy folk sup,
    _But here, in Haymarket, the roadway is up_.

    There are circles of beech upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the leaves of a lifetime decay;
    Hiding the memories, lingering still,
    Of Rome’s indisputable sway.
    And under the beech-leaves of Cissbury Hill,
    Throbs the heart of the downland alway.
    While dreaming of chieftains and warriors in woad,
    _You’re lighting your pipe in the Charing Cross Road_.




[Illustration]




                              COLOMBINE


     _An old man and a boy are seen talking; both are labourers.
                 The old man, who is seated, speaks_:

      DAN’L. Well, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. There’s little use in stopping here much longer.

      NATHAN’L. Not as I can see.

      DAN’L. Like my old eyes, the sun don’t grow no stronger.

      NATHAN’L. And I wants my tea.

      DAN’L. Do ee, lad?

      NATHAN’L. Ah, main bad.

      DAN’L. Which means ’tis time to go, I reckons.

      NATHAN’L. That’s a proposition as I seconds.

      DAN’L. Come on then, let’s be moving. Tip us yer daddle.

      NATHAN’L. All of a sudden you be in a mortal caddle.
    I wants to hear the finish of that yarn
    As you was spinning down at Tranter’s Barn.
    A peck of troubles it was all about.
    I wants to know how everything turned out.

      DAN’L. You wants your tea, that’s what you wants, my son.

      NATHAN’L. There’s time enough for tea when you be done.

      DAN’L. Well, though ’tis little enough I read,
    I sid in a story-book years ago,
    (Though mind, Nathan’l, there beant no need
    To be letting on as I told ee so)
    That all the troubles as worrits a man
    Was locked in a box when the world began.

    And there no doubt they’d ha’ bid till now,
    If the dummel soul as had got the key,
    Hadn’t got mixed up with a maid somehow
    And gone and handed it over to she.
    And what do ee fancy the maiden did?
    Darn me, Nathan’l, ur lifted the lid.

[Illustration]

    And all they troubles come trooping out,
    Like hens from a chicken-run might have done.
    For the maiden fancied without a doubt,
    They’d go back in the evening like, one by one.
    But time’s got to settle a few more clocks,
    Afore they troubles goes back to their box.

    Straight, Nathan’l, ’tis near enough
    To make a methody parson swear.
    And every time as I reads such stuff,
    I goes so red as yon moon up there.
    To think of the trouble ur brought on we--
    I reckon I owes my old gal to she.

      NATHAN’L. Is it true, do ee think, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, mebbe not, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee think, Dan’l--she let out the lot?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe not.

      NATHAN’L. Sounds like a fairy story to me.

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe, mebbe.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee believe in fairies, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Can’t be sure as I do, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, I don’t anyway, and that’s a fact.

                          _Enter_ COLOMBINE.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l, be I dreaming or be I cracked?

      NATHAN’L. My goodness, Dan’l, I do believe as she’s a fairy....

      DAN’L. Here, come into the shadow of these trees,
    And give that clacking tongue of yourn a rest.

      NATHAN’L. Oh, this be more wonderful than all the things I ever
          guessed.

      DAN’L. And it means _summat_ that you _may_ depend.

      NATHAN’L. See, where she walks, the grass don’t even bend
    Beneath her feet. She be a fairy, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. I wish you’d hold your clacking tongue, Nathan’l.

                      [COLOMBINE, _hearing a noise, pauses to listen_.

      COLOMBINE. Who’s there? The daylight fades. I cannot see.

      DAN’L. You go.

      NATHAN’L.     No, you.

      DAN’L.                So please you, Miss, ’tis we.

      COLOMBINE. Good evening, Sirs.

      DAN’L.                Our best respects to ee.
    A goodish evening to be sure, but getting dark and cold.
    Time gals like you was safe abed, if I might make so bold.

      COLOMBINE. Old man, the night has but begun.

      DAN’L. The day be done.

      COLOMBINE. The moon has scarcely risen yet.

      DAN’L. The sun have set.

      COLOMBINE. The sun his wandering footsteps stays to greet the crescent moon.
    The nightjar and the nightingale will both be singing soon.

      DAN’L. Us don’t set much store by nightingales in these parts,
            and as for nightjars! Oh lor, us shoots they.
          Give I a linnet now,
          A-sitting on a bough;
          As sings his message to the sun,
          And goes to sleep when day be done,
          Respectable like!

      NATHAN’L. [_Coming forward._]
          Queer things,
          These here rings
          You sees in the grass
          When you pass.
          They say ’tis where Pharisees dances at night!
          Be that right?

      COLOMBINE. Quite right; yet once the circle that you see,
    Saw war and tumult.

      DAN’L.           Lawks-a-mussey me!

      COLOMBINE. The Roman legions camped on yonder brow,
    And built the road you stand on.

      NATHAN’L.                     Did they now!

      COLOMBINE. The sun would sink out yonder in the west,
    And shine upon their helmets.

      DAN’L.                      Well I’m blest!

      COLOMBINE. The very spot where Julius Caesar sat,
    Lies just behind those beeches.

      NATHAN’L.                    Think of that!

      COLOMBINE. In yonder barrow treasures rare lie hid.
    Dig deep to find them.

      DAN’L.               Well I never did!

      NATHAN’L. But when did all this
                Happen, Miss?
                How many years ago,
                I’d like to know?

      COLOMBINE. Roughly two thousand, on this very spot.

      DAN’L. Lor! What a memory you must have got.

      COLOMBINE. [_To_ NATHAN’L.] But tell me please;
    Beneath these trees,
    What travellers come, and whither bound?
    Do still these ancient heights resound
    With martial music and the tramp of men?

      NATHAN’L. Us gets a hurdy-gurdy now and then,
    And once a clown on stilts went through the wood;
    And oh! he could catch pennies, that he could.

      COLOMBINE. But in what fashion do you pass your days?

      NATHAN’L. I kill the time in various sorts of ways.
    Scaring the rooks as settles on the corn;
    Helping the shepherd when the lambs be born.
    Talking to Dan’l about these here rings,
    And wondering about a power of things.
    As don’t concern nobody, I suppose.
    But then, you must do summat, goodness knows.

      COLOMBINE. Of course. ’Tis lonely here without a doubt.
    What are the things you’re wondering about
    To-day?

[Illustration]

      NATHAN’L. Such things as surely never was.
    Such things as surely no one ever does.
    And yet, of nothing, for they moves so fast,
    You finds as you’ve forgotten them at last.
    Just like a dream they passes and be gone.
    Just like a dream they passes....

      COLOMBINE.                      Yes, go on.

      NATHAN’L. Just like a dream, for though I thinks a lot,
    Before they’re rightly thought they’re clean forgot.
    Though somehow, now I sits and talks to you,
    I keeps remembering things I never knew.
    Just like as though somebody slammed a door,
    When you was going where you’d been before;
    Leaving you standing on the further side,
    Wondering at what was happening inside.
    Whether the folk you knew was there or not;
    Whether you really knew, and had forgot;
    Whether you’d been there once when you was small,
    Or whether you was never there at all.
    ’Tis plaguey awkerd, wondering, that it be.
    And now I must be off, I wants my tea.                    [_Exit._

      COLOMBINE. Good-bye. And think sometimes of me.

                           [_Rousing herself from the brown study into
                             which this revelation has thrown her, and
                             addressing_ DAN’L.

    Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. [_Startled._] Eh?

      COLOMBINE. Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. It all depends. Why?

      COLOMBINE. There’s going to be a fight.

      DAN’L. When? Where?

      COLOMBINE. Very soon.
             By the light of the moon.
             On the very stroke of nine.
             All for love of Colombine.

      DAN’L. Shall I fetch a policeman?

      COLOMBINE. A policeman! Dear me, no.

      DAN’L. Who’s going to fight.

      COLOMBINE. Don’t you know?
                             Harlequin and Pierrot.

      DAN’L. Never heard of they.

      COLOMBINE. Won’t it be fun?

      DAN’L. Good fun
                      For the one as gets killed.

      COLOMBINE. But they won’t kill each other. They never do. They’re
    _most_ dependable.

      DAN’L. Have um fought before?

      COLOMBINE. Of course. Hundreds of times.

      DAN’L. Silly young chaps.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. They’re not silly. They’re fighting for me. Don’t you
    understand?

      DAN’L. I fought about a girl once. But only once. It was a long
    time ago.

      COLOMBINE. You’re not romantic. Romance would die if it wasn’t
    for fighting. Romance _is_ fighting.

      DAN’L. Then I’ve had quite enough romance to please me.

      COLOMBINE. All properly constituted love affairs should include
    a fight. Love without fighting is insipid.

      DAN’L. _You_ don’t have to do the fighting. Which of ’em loves
    you the most?

      COLOMBINE. Why, Pierrot, of course.

      DAN’L. Then why don’t you marry him?

      COLOMBINE. And disappoint Harlequin? I couldn’t do that.

      DAN’L. When are you going to decide?

      COLOMBINE. I don’t know. [_On her fingers._] This year, next
    year, some time, never. To-night perhaps.

      DAN’L. One day they’ll get tired of fighting. What then?

      COLOMBINE. Never!

      DAN’L. You’re sure of that?

      COLOMBINE. Oh, yes. Quite sure.

      DAN’L. One of them may get killed.

      COLOMBINE. They wouldn’t be so careless.

      DAN’L. What should you do if one of ’em got killed by accident?

      COLOMBINE. I should be very angry. But you’re very horrid to
    suggest such things. Why don’t you go away?

      DAN’L. Good-bye.

      COLOMBINE. No, stay.

      DAN’L. Well, I’m fond of a fight, I must say.

      COLOMBINE. Hush! They are coming. Quick, behind this tree.

      DAN’L. Anywhere in the background’s good enough for me.

      COLOMBINE. A fight, a fight! And all for love of me.

                    [_The orchestra plays quietly the Soldiers’ Chorus
                        and snatches of other martial refrains. The
                        two watchers betray tense excitement._
                        HARLEQUIN _and_ PIERROT _enter arm in arm.
                        Any differences they may have had are evidently
                        settled._ COLOMBINE _looks on in astonishment_.

[Illustration]

      HARLEQUIN. Mind you, as girls go, Colombine’s one of the best.

      PIERROT. Ah yes.

      HARLEQUIN. But nothing to fight about.

      PIERROT. [_Without conviction._] No.

      HARLEQUIN. And fighting’s going out of fashion. There’s no doubt
    about that.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. The whole trend of modern thought is opposed to it.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. None of the best people do it.

      PIERROT. I suppose not.

      HARLEQUIN. And one must be in the movement.

      PIERROT. Of course.

      HARLEQUIN. Arbitration’s the thing nowadays.

      PIERROT. What’s that?

      HARLEQUIN. Why, you each talk until you’re out of breath, and
    the one with most breath wins.

      PIERROT. [_Taking a deep breath._] That seems a good idea.

      HARLEQUIN. It is.

      PIERROT. But what will Colombine say if we don’t fight? She loves
    to watch us fight.

      HARLEQUIN. My dear chap, we must be firm. Adopt your point of
    view, and stick to it in the face of all opposition.

      COLOMBINE. [_Advancing._] Aren’t you going to fight?

      PIERROT. [_Kindly._] Not to-night.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! Why not?

      HARLEQUIN. Well, we’ve got
                 Other fish to fry,
                 That’s why.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! do fight!

      PIERROT. Not to-night.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, my dear girl, do listen to reason. You will admit,
    I suppose, that the most elementary point about a duel is to spit
    your opponent through the gizzard.

      COLOMBINE. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. Well, I haven’t got a gizzard, and what’s the use of
    trying to spit a man’s gizzard, if he hasn’t got a gizzard to spit?
    You must be reasonable.

      COLOMBINE. How do you know you haven’t got a gizzard?

      HARLEQUIN. We don’t know for certain, we assume.

      PIERROT. You’ve only to look at him to see there isn’t room.

      COLOMBINE. But why the gizzard? What does it matter _where_ you
    spit him so long as you do spit him?

      HARLEQUIN. For heaven’s sake, my dear girl, don’t preach such
    revolutionary doctrines. There is a certain etiquette to be
    observed, even in a battle.

      COLOMBINE. [_After a pause._] But it’s quite simple. You spit
    Pierrot. He’s got a gizzard, I suppose.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. Pierrot consulted a phrenologist....

      PIERROT. Soothsayer!

      HARLEQUIN. Sorry--soothsayer, who said he was born to be hung....

      PIERROT. Hanged!

      HARLEQUIN. Hanged, and so of course, he doesn’t want to run the
    risk of disappointing him.

      COLOMBINE. Very considerate, I’m sure.
    I think you’re absolutely _horrid_, there.               [_Cries._

      HARLEQUIN. [_To_ PIERROT.] Don’t waver, both together.

      HARLEQUIN and PIERROT. We don’t care
          Tuppence what you think or say,
          We talked the matter over, here to-day;
          And arbitration is the only way.

      COLOMBINE. You’re frightened.

      HARLEQUIN. Don’t be silly. Frightened! Me!

      COLOMBINE. Well, who’s your arbitrator going to be?

      HARLEQUIN. [_Taken aback._] Why yes, we must have someone, I
        suppose.
    But who’s to do it?

      PIERROT.          Goodness only knows!
    There’s not a single person within call.

    COLOMBINE. [_Clapping her hands._] Hurrah! You’ll have to fight,
      then, after all.

                       [_There is a pause, during which_ PIERROT _and_
                       HARLEQUIN _look at each other in dismay_.
                       COLOMBINE _on the other hand claps her
                       hands and pirouettes round the stage. Then_
                       HARLEQUIN _sees_ DAN’L _and drags him forward
                       at the same time speaking in asides_.

      HARLEQUIN. What’s your name?

      DAN’L. Much the same
            As it’s always bin,
            Week out, week in,
            This seventy year and more.

      HARLEQUIN. Good! We want you to arbitrate.
    You’re the very man.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey. I’ll do it if I can.

      HARLEQUIN. There’s much gold.
               Wealth untold!
               If you only do
               As I tell you to.

      DAN’L. Fire away!

      HARLEQUIN. Until to-day, Pierrot and I have been in the habit of
    engaging in mortal combat for the hand of Colombine. Owing to the
    fact that up to the present neither has had the decency to get
    killed, and as a result of the wave of anti-militarism that has
    swept over the country, we have decided to fall back on arbitration.
    And you are the arbitrator. You understand?

      DAN’L. No!

      HARLEQUIN. Then you’re very thick.

      DAN’L. You speaks too quick
    And the way you keeps hopping about makes me fair mazed.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. One of us is to marry
    Colombine, and you’ve to decide which it’s to be.
    Do you see?

      DAN’L. No.

      HARLEQUIN. But it’s quite simple.

      DAN’L. Maybe. But how do I know which it’s to be?

      HARLEQUIN. I’ll let you into a secret. It’s me!

      DAN’L. Oh! And if I goes and sez ’tis you,
    What’s yon chap in the white trousers going to do?

      HARLEQUIN. Never mind him. He’s a fool.

      DAN’L. It seems it don’t much matter what I say;
    I’m bound to upset one of ye either way.
    Oh! very well.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Pierrot! Gather round.

                        [_They sit in a semicircle_; COLOMBINE _and_
                          DAN’L _in the centre_.

      DAN’L. I shall catch my death of cold, sitting on this damp
    ground.

                        [_There is silence, each waiting for the other
                          to speak._

      COLOMBINE. You don’t seem very anxious, either of you.

      DAN’L. Who goes first?

      HARLEQUIN. If I don’t say something, and quickly, I shall burst.

      DAN’L. Then you’d best get started. [_Aside._] How long will it take?

      HARLEQUIN. Until it’s ended.

      DAN’L. Cut it short for goodness’ sake.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Let me take you away from these lonely hills.
    Into the heart of the world where lies the Land of Yesterday. There
    are stored all the happy hours that you have known. You shall live
    them all over again, Colombine--every one. I will lead you by secret
    paths, through the dim woods of yesternight until we stand together
    in the sunlight of the days that have been. Walking backward through
    the years, we will collect those dear lost delights, of which only
    the memory remains. From all that has gone before, it shall be yours
    to pick and choose, and no To-morrow shall throw its ominous shade
    before. The past shall deliver up its treasures to your hand; regrets
    shall be ended, and happiness shall be sure. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. No, Harlequin. The road to your Land of Yesterday is
    longer than you know, and there is no going back. Let us still take
    from the past our memories and our dreams, but do not ask for more,
    lest even these be denied.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: THE GATEWAY OF HAPPINESS]

      HARLEQUIN. As you will. Then it is to the future that we must
    turn. Colombine, far from here, set in a desert of hot sand, is a
    crystal, so large, that all the giants of Africa could not stir
    it the thickness of a hair. Peering into its depths, you may read
    your future to the end of time. A day, a week, a year, shall be no
    barrier to the vision of the mind. You may read all the riddles of
    the universe, and there will remain nothing that you do not know. You
    shall see your face as it will be when twice twenty harvest moons
    have waned, and fifty summer suns have set. And I, alone, can point
    you the way. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. You promise much, Harlequin. It may well be that in some
    spot remote from the haunts of men, the Mirror of Fate yet lies hid.
    And you may find it. Who knows! But this, at least, is certain; the
    path will be difficult and the journey long. Would you not tire by
    the way, Harlequin? I think you would. [_Pause._] And, it is not in
    distant deserts I would seek. In the woods of home, hearts may thrill
    to the eloquent silences of the night. [HARLEQUIN _rises_.] All the
    secrets of the world might be ours, did we but care to learn the
    simple language of the nightingale. Across the moonlight, the shadows
    of the branches trace unforgettable things. Great secrets tremble on
    the lips of the leaves, and mortals grope vainly in the daylight for
    things seen most plainly in the dark.

      DAN’L. [_Coughing to draw attention to himself._]
    I’ve allus noticed, in whatever parts I med ha’ bin,
    A maid in love have allus got a fairish yarn to spin.
    And in whatever parts I’ve bin, I’ve allus noticed too,
    The foolish lads do take it all for gospel, that um do.
    But though I’ve kept good notice in whatever parts I was,
    I’ve never heard a maid to spin a yarn like this un does.
    Ur be a marvel, that ur be; I hope as ur won’t try
    When ur’s tired of you two fellows here, to spin no yarns to I;
    For fools be mostly biggest fools when um be old and grey.
    And if I went along o’ she, what _ud_ my missus say.
    Next man?

      COLOMBINE. Come, Pierrot!

      PIERROT. [_With an effort._] Colombine!

      COLOMBINE. Yes, Pierrot.

      HARLEQUIN. Go on!

      DAN’L. Let’s hear what you’ve got to say, young fellow.

      PIERROT. There is nothing to say.

      COLOMBINE. Nothing to say!

      PIERROT. Save that I love you, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. And is that so small a thing, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. But I have nothing to offer you, nothing.

      COLOMBINE. [_Softly._] Save yourself.

      HARLEQUIN. I have always said that Pierrot was master of sounding
    silences. The sweetest singer of unsung songs, his eloquent nothings
    go shrieking through the void. He scorns to desecrate the virgin
    purity of his foolscap with the written word. What love is that which
    dare not tell its love? Come, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. See, Harlequin, here is a beech nut. You shake it, yet
    there is no sound. Is it full? Is it empty?

      HARLEQUIN. Who can say?

      DAN’L. Likewise, young Nathan’l he picks up a match-box last week,
    and throws it away because there was no sound when he rattles en
    [_To_ HARLEQUIN.] And what do you think?

      HARLEQUIN. I couldn’t say.

      DAN’L. It was so full all the time as not to rattle at all.

      HARLEQUIN. [_Scornfully._] Matches! ye gods! Let’s talk of cucumbers,
    Or shame the glory of this summer night
    With tales of warming-pans.
    Has no one here a button-hook,
    With which to probe the vast unsounded deeps
    [_To_ DAN’L.] Of thy poor addled brain.
    It yet may be,
    In some uncharted corner of the void
    That passes for thy mind,
    We find a collar-stud.
    Farewell!                                                 [_Exit._

      DAN’L. Well, he won’t come back again, that I will be bound,
    And as I be catching my death of cold, sitting on this damp ground,
    I’d best be moving. [_Rises._] Ugh! Good-night to ee.

      PIERROT. Good-night!

      COLOMBINE. [_Aside to_ DAN’L.] And, Mr. Arbitrator, if you see
    Your friend Nathan’l, say that Pierrot
    Owes more to him than he will ever know. [_Exit_ DAN’L.

      COLOMBINE. They have gone!

      PIERROT. Ah!

      COLOMBINE. And the night draws on.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      COLOMBINE. You are sad. Why are you sad, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. I cannot tell.

      COLOMBINE. And you are cold. Is it the night air?

      PIERROT. The wind-swept wold
    Is a street of gold,
    So my lady be walking there.

      COLOMBINE. Yet you are sad. See, they have gone and will not
    come again.

      PIERROT. So love may vanish too,
    And of his chain no link remain
    To tell the way he flew.

      COLOMBINE. Love, as the skylark, soars into that Heaven where’t
    fain would be.

      PIERROT. And singing still, returns. Time was when you, with
    Harlequin, would revel till the cold grey dawn came in.

      COLOMBINE. Light loves sometime were pleasant, but to-night the
    face of love seems changed. No more will stray this wandering heart
    of mine.

      PIERROT. Are you not sorry, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. Sorry for what, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. For loss of Harlequin.

      COLOMBINE. Harlequin is very clever but he talks of what he does
    not know, and promises what is not his to give. Cleverness is not
    everything, Pierrot. The mind is like a garden full of flowers, but
        The heart is a little house,
        With windows facing southerly;
        By which a pathway winds.
        And there, behind the blinds,
        We sit and wait,
        Watching, waiting for what?
        We know not.

    The garden is a pleasant place in summer, but when it is winter, we
    seek the fireside of the little house.

      PIERROT. Yet you are fond of gardens and pretty flowers, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. What flowers grow
          In your garden, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. My garden is full of the flowers,
          My mother planted for me;
          Curious, old-world flowers,
          Thyme, lavender, rosemary.
          Planted in days gone by.
          And, though no gardener I,
          As the shadows fall, I tend them all;
          Watering, pruning there.
          Am I happy in my lot?
          I know not.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. And there is the little house, Pierrot.

      PIERROT. Ah, yes there is the little house.
          Do you remember when
          You peeped through the pane, and then
          Went on your way again?
          Out of my sight, although,
          I beckoned you as you passed,
          And sat at my window mournfully.
          But you came again at last.
          And, seeing you come, I said;
          “The flowers in my garden are dead,
          So will she have no more of me.”

    COLOMBINE. I am knocking at the door, Pierrot.
          Knocking and waiting there,
          For the sound of a step on the stair.
          Will you open to me, Pierrot?

                                [PIERROT’S _answer may be taken in the
                                  affirmative. As they sit together, it
                                  grows dark._

[Illustration]

      PIERROT. [_Rising._] Come dear, and let us go,
    Together, hand in hand,
    Into that sun-lit land,
    Where life and love are things inseparable.
    Where, beneath cloudless skies,
    The happy are the wise,
    And none reprove the glory of a love they may not understand.

                                                     [_Exit together._
                          [_It becomes quite dark_: DAN’L _and an_ OLD
                            MAN _pass slowly across the stage, carrying
                            lanterns, and peering cautiously into the
                            blackness of the night_.

      THE OLD MAN. You was dreaming, Dan’l. That’s about the size of it.

      DAN’L. And I tells ee I wur as wide awake as you be. Us had been
    sitting over-long by the clump, and all of a sudden I looks up and
    sees a fairy. “Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l,” I sez, “be I dreaming or
    be I cracked?”

                              [_They pass off, and the curtain falls._


                                FINIS

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                             OTHER VERSES




                            THE MARIONETTE


        Man is merely a marionette
          On invisible wires suspended.
        And it’s just as well he shouldn’t forget
            That Fate the showman is in the wings,
            Working the business and pulling the strings
        Till his turn is over and ended.

        Man is merely a figure on strings,
          By the glare of the footlights blinded.
        And the wonderful way he dances and sings
            Is not unlikely to fill his mind
            With a great contempt for the Power behind,
        Till suddenly he’s reminded.

        Man is the cream of an idle jest,
          A smile on the face of sorrow.
        A sad peculiar figure at best;
            Willing to sacrifice every day,
            Breaking his heart in the hope of play
        On a problematical morrow.




                          A LETTER FROM HOME


        I’ve a letter from home to-day;
        A letter from home to say
        That they’re cutting the trees in the Priory Wood,
        That lambing is over and crops are good.
        Quite the usual thing, be it understood,
        Is my letter from home, to-day.

        I’ve a letter from home, to-day;
        A letter from far away,
        Bidding me ever to bear in mind
        The dear old friends I have left behind.
        But I’m not of the quickly forgetting kind,
        Dear letter from home, to-day!

        In my letter from home, to-day;
        Is a postscript, just to say
        “No doubt you’ll be very much grieved to hear
        That the girl who stayed at the Grange last year,
        Is dead, and was yesterday buried here.”
        And the world has ended, to-day.




                           THE EXPLANATION


                How do I know I love you?
                Why, because
                When you’re away, d’ye see,
                I kind o’ wanders lonesome like
                An’ frets,
                ’Cause you’re not there with me.
                An’ when I meet you by the stile
                At night,
                And not a soul to see,
                I scarce durst speak to you because
                You’re you, an’ I’m just me.




                              MEMORANDA


                In your Book of Memory,
                Set aside no page for me.
                Do not write our friendship there,
                But, if you’ve the time to spare,
                Scribble just this hurried line:
                “He was once a friend of mine.”

                Blot it very carefully,
                Turn the page that none may see.
                Life goes singing down the way
                Different ballads every day.
                Other pages open fair,
                Set new tales of friendship there.

                And the day will come maybe,
                When that hurried line of me;
                Seen by chance a moment’s space,
                Will recall a vanished face,
                And a memory sweeter than
                Many written pages can.




                      LOVE, LAUGHTER, AND AFTER


            The ruinous cottage, the broken latch;
            The cold stone floor and the dripping thatch.
            The ripe red lips of the girl who stands
            Holding her lover’s hands.

            The gay Casino, the fancy ball;
            The twinkling lights of the crowded hall.
            The cool sweet air of the terrace dim,
            Love and laughter and--him.

            The pitiful pageant that follows soon;
            The music hall and the cheap saloon.
            The sad procession, the coffee stall.
            The river that ends it all.




                             TH’ COORTIN’


                ’Tis just about a wik ago,
                  Or mebbe two, or theresabout,
                As I axed Kate why ur an’ Joe
                  Was seed together waalking out;
                Whenas, fur nigh upon a year,
                ’Twur I as had been coortin’ ur.

                “Why, laws-a-mussey, Bill,” ur sez,
                  “Fur certain sure ye must allow
                Us two caan’t alluz spend our days
                  The same as us be doin’ now.
                Ye’d better wed wi’ one ye doan’t
                Than waalk wi’ one ye do, as woan’t.”

                I cudden zackly understand
                  What ’twur as she was drivin’ at,
                Until I cotched ur by the hand
                  And took a peep ’erneath ur hat.
                Wur what I see surprised I so,
                  I gi’ed ur kiss, an’ whispered low:
                “Ye’d better wed the feller who
                Has alluz bin in luv wi’ you.”
                And that’s just what ur means to do.




                              AGREEMENT

                    Oyez! Oyez! Behold we state
                    The rules of this our Syndicate.


              Let it be granted first of all,
              That you are not so young and small
              As foolish people would suppose,
              From your long hair and shorter clothes.

              Item the second, please agree
              To just the opposite in me.
              For would the wisest man alive
              Imagine I was twenty-five?

              This done, folk cannot make a fuss,
              Or say that we’re preposterous.
              For you become, as all may see,
              A chaperone in charge of me.

              Thirdly, this reservation’s made,
              The Syndicate’s too old and staid
              To ride (though you’ll object no doubt)
              In swinging boat and roundabout.

              Fourthly, the world’s a dear old place,
              So always keep a smiling face.
              It suits you best, and as to that,
              So does pink chiffon in your hat.

              Lastly, lest envious folk combine
              To wreck your Syndicate, and mine,
              My autograph is here affixed,
              Written in blood and water mixed.

       _P.S._ It may not look like blood to you
              But recollect my blood is blue.




                             THE BURYIN’


                The mists be on the river bed,
                The roses all be gone;
                And here be I, about to die,
                Wi’ harvest coming on.
                Dear Lord, I’ve trapsed some weary miles,
                I’ll be main glad to rest awhiles.

                The folk’ll soon be in the fields,
                A-getting in the grain.
                For most of those, the time I’ve chose
                Be awkerd in the main.
                Though not so bad, ’tis sure, for they
                As be a-working by the day.

                September be a better month
                For all the carter men;
                And when I die don’t signify,
                So let I bide till then.
                The wagons’ll be standing by,
                And there’ll be time to bury I.




                          A ZONG TO ZING-OH!


            When the zun beyond the Beacon be a-zettin’
            And everything’s as quiet as can be,
            By the gate to varmur’s meddy,
            That old gate zo vurm and zteddy,
            You be pretty zure uv vindin’ Jim and me.

            When the mists along the valley be uprisin’
            And the nightingale’s a-zingin’ in the tree;
            When the peewits be a-zquawkin’
            Uz don’t waste no time a-talkin’
            Time’s a vasty zight too short sez Jim an’ me

            With the honeyzuckle zcent zo thick as treacle,
            And the chestnut blossoms droppin’ onto we;
            As us zets zo close together,
            Why zometimes I wonders whether
            Jim ull zet that close in Paradise to me.

            When the clocks down in the village be a-strikin’
            And darkness comes a-creepin’ up the lea,
            Then, though us be zeldom ready,
            Us must leave old varmur’s meddy,
            Or the volk ull all be wonderin’ where us be.




                                 SONG


            Long ago,
            (How long ago I really don’t know;)
            A kingfisher lived in a valley of green,
            The finest kingfisher that ever was seen--
            In that little green valley I know.

            Silent and slow
            All in a row, buttercups grow.
            One day the kingfisher selected his queen,
            And the bride wore a costume of purple and green
            ’Neath the willows that stand in a row.

            Heigho!
            (As the years go, still the streams flow)
            The whole of this summer they haven’t been seen,
            And a wood-pecker reigns in that valley serene.
            Where they’ve gone to I really don’t know.




                              PHILOSOPHY


                When I was young, in days gone by,
                I smoked Wild Woodbines on the sly.
                They made me ill, but what of that?
                ’Twas nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                If I had shirked that pallid brow
                I couldn’t smoke Havanas now.

                The only girl I ever kissed,
                Both found and left an optimist.
                She jilted me, but even that
                Was nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                I’ve such a cozy little den,
                And know a lot of married men.

                And now, although I’m getting stout,
                And though my hair is falling out,
                And people call me old and fat,
                There’s nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                Although I am a perfect fright,
                I don’t look bad by candle light.




                               FORFEITS


                You fail to catch the trencher spun
                And, later, when the game is done,
                The lady who collects the fees
                Demands a forfeit, if you please.
                You find a penny, grimed and black,
                And hope that you may get it back.

                You sit in speechless misery,
                And wonder what your fate will be,
                Until, within that giggling ring,
                You have to claim the wretched thing;
                Then sally forth upon your quest,
                To kiss the one you love the best.

                You don’t appreciate the fun,
                But curb a wild desire to run;
                Then seek a matron staid and stout,
                And drag the willing victim out;
                Because, of course, it wouldn’t do
                To kiss the girl you wanted to.




                             THE REVIVAL


            Take me away, for I will see no more;
            It was but yesterday I saw the play before,
            The day on which my dear and I were wed--
            Your mother, child--your mother who is dead.
            Why did you bring me here to see a play
            Which she and I saw only yesterday?




                         A PATRON OF THE ARTS


                    I knew a lady once I did,
                    Who lived away at Pontypridd;
                    She liked my verses very much,
                    And said I had the lyric touch.

                    She used to ask me round to lunch,
                    And say I ought to edit “Punch,”
                    As Owen S. and Francis B.,
                    Were amateurs compared to me.

                    Last week I met her in a batch
                    Of lunatics at Colney Hatch,
                    And heard she always spoke of me
                    As far surpassing Calverley.




                              CRITICISM


                A simple poet on a time,
                Resolved to write a simple rhyme.
                His verse was pleasing to the ear;
                He also made his meaning clear.

                The critics glanced at it, and said
                Such rubbish they had never read.
                A point on which they did agree,
                With touching unanimity.

                The simple poet took his lay,
                And turned it round the other way.
                Shuffled the sentences about,
                And took a dozen commas out.

                The critics took the volume, and
                Read, marked--and failed to understand.
                Then fell upon their stomachs flat,
                This prodigy to marvel at.




                           TREASON AND PLOT


                When I am very, very rich,
                  And very famous, too,
                I’ll take a cab to Regent’s Park,
                  And walk into the Zoo
                With quite a consequential air,
                For I shall be the richest there.

                And in a lordly way I’ll take
                  A shilling from my purse,
                And buy the biggest rattle-snake
                  To carry home to Nurse,
                And, as she’s very short of breath,
                Perhaps ’twill frighten her to death.




                        THE POPPY AND THE POET


                Like poppies in the golden corn,
                  The poet’s race is run;
                Each strives alike to gain the ear;
                  The poppy from the sun
                Borrows more radiance than gold--
                A poet’s much the same, I’m told.

                But still these differences appear
                  When everything is said;
                The poet’s leaves, I greatly fear,
                  Are very seldom read.
                Poppies but borrow from the sun--
                A poet will from anyone.




                              EL DORADO


                He sought it through the golden isles
                Of Once Upon a Time.
                In fabled fields of Might Have Been
                He heard its distant chime.
                He saw, mid Dreamland’s mystic glades,
                Its turrets from afar;
                And found it in the valley, where
                The deepest shadows are.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


The Project Gutenberg eBook of Colombine a fantasy
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Colombine a fantasy
        and other verses

Author: Reginald Arkell

Illustrator: Frederick Carter

Release date: June 19, 2025 [eBook #76341]

Language: English

Original publication: London: Benn and Cronin, Ltd, 1911

Credits: Carol Brown, Charlene Taylor and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***

Transcriber’s Note:

Words and phrases in italics are surrounded by underscores, _like
this_.

“ro” was changed to “to” ... desire to run ...




  COLOMBINE

  A FANTASY

  AND OTHER VERSES




  _LONDON_
  BENN AND CRONIN, LTD.
  CRAVEN HOUSE, KINGSWAY, W.C.
  1911




       _Copyright: Entered at Stationers’ Hall, December 1911.
                  Acting Rights strictly Reserved._




[Illustration: COLOMBINE.]




[Illustration:

  COLOMBINE
  A FANTASY

  BY REGINALD ARKELL

  WITH SOME DRAWINGS
  BY FREDERICK CARTER.]




[Illustration]




                            AUTHOR’S NOTE

“COLOMBINE” was first performed at Clavier Hall, Hanover Square, W.,
on Thursday, 7th December 1911, with the following cast:

    Dan’l (an old man)         MR. B. BUTLER.
    Nathan’l (a boy)           MR. A. E. FILMER.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Harlequin                  MR. REGINALD BACH.
    Pierrot                    MR. MARK HANNAM.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Colombine                  MISS ETHEL EVANS.

    The play was produced by MR. A. E. FILMER.


                                SCENE

  A ROMAN CAMP on the summit of Cissbury Beacon in the South Downs.
     A fairy ring occupies the foreground. All round are beech trees.
     The time is evening.




[Illustration]




                               PROLOGUE


    There are circles of green upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the Pharisees dance--so they say;
    Revelling merrily round it until
    The dawn over Ditchling is gray.
    And travellers lost upon Cissbury Hill--
    (Pixy-led folk who stray)
    Seated on toad-stools, with fairy folk sup,
    _But here, in Haymarket, the roadway is up_.

    There are circles of beech upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the leaves of a lifetime decay;
    Hiding the memories, lingering still,
    Of Rome’s indisputable sway.
    And under the beech-leaves of Cissbury Hill,
    Throbs the heart of the downland alway.
    While dreaming of chieftains and warriors in woad,
    _You’re lighting your pipe in the Charing Cross Road_.




[Illustration]




                              COLOMBINE


     _An old man and a boy are seen talking; both are labourers.
                 The old man, who is seated, speaks_:

      DAN’L. Well, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. There’s little use in stopping here much longer.

      NATHAN’L. Not as I can see.

      DAN’L. Like my old eyes, the sun don’t grow no stronger.

      NATHAN’L. And I wants my tea.

      DAN’L. Do ee, lad?

      NATHAN’L. Ah, main bad.

      DAN’L. Which means ’tis time to go, I reckons.

      NATHAN’L. That’s a proposition as I seconds.

      DAN’L. Come on then, let’s be moving. Tip us yer daddle.

      NATHAN’L. All of a sudden you be in a mortal caddle.
    I wants to hear the finish of that yarn
    As you was spinning down at Tranter’s Barn.
    A peck of troubles it was all about.
    I wants to know how everything turned out.

      DAN’L. You wants your tea, that’s what you wants, my son.

      NATHAN’L. There’s time enough for tea when you be done.

      DAN’L. Well, though ’tis little enough I read,
    I sid in a story-book years ago,
    (Though mind, Nathan’l, there beant no need
    To be letting on as I told ee so)
    That all the troubles as worrits a man
    Was locked in a box when the world began.

    And there no doubt they’d ha’ bid till now,
    If the dummel soul as had got the key,
    Hadn’t got mixed up with a maid somehow
    And gone and handed it over to she.
    And what do ee fancy the maiden did?
    Darn me, Nathan’l, ur lifted the lid.

[Illustration]

    And all they troubles come trooping out,
    Like hens from a chicken-run might have done.
    For the maiden fancied without a doubt,
    They’d go back in the evening like, one by one.
    But time’s got to settle a few more clocks,
    Afore they troubles goes back to their box.

    Straight, Nathan’l, ’tis near enough
    To make a methody parson swear.
    And every time as I reads such stuff,
    I goes so red as yon moon up there.
    To think of the trouble ur brought on we--
    I reckon I owes my old gal to she.

      NATHAN’L. Is it true, do ee think, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, mebbe not, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee think, Dan’l--she let out the lot?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe not.

      NATHAN’L. Sounds like a fairy story to me.

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe, mebbe.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee believe in fairies, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Can’t be sure as I do, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, I don’t anyway, and that’s a fact.

                          _Enter_ COLOMBINE.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l, be I dreaming or be I cracked?

      NATHAN’L. My goodness, Dan’l, I do believe as she’s a fairy....

      DAN’L. Here, come into the shadow of these trees,
    And give that clacking tongue of yourn a rest.

      NATHAN’L. Oh, this be more wonderful than all the things I ever
          guessed.

      DAN’L. And it means _summat_ that you _may_ depend.

      NATHAN’L. See, where she walks, the grass don’t even bend
    Beneath her feet. She be a fairy, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. I wish you’d hold your clacking tongue, Nathan’l.

                      [COLOMBINE, _hearing a noise, pauses to listen_.

      COLOMBINE. Who’s there? The daylight fades. I cannot see.

      DAN’L. You go.

      NATHAN’L.     No, you.

      DAN’L.                So please you, Miss, ’tis we.

      COLOMBINE. Good evening, Sirs.

      DAN’L.                Our best respects to ee.
    A goodish evening to be sure, but getting dark and cold.
    Time gals like you was safe abed, if I might make so bold.

      COLOMBINE. Old man, the night has but begun.

      DAN’L. The day be done.

      COLOMBINE. The moon has scarcely risen yet.

      DAN’L. The sun have set.

      COLOMBINE. The sun his wandering footsteps stays to greet the crescent moon.
    The nightjar and the nightingale will both be singing soon.

      DAN’L. Us don’t set much store by nightingales in these parts,
            and as for nightjars! Oh lor, us shoots they.
          Give I a linnet now,
          A-sitting on a bough;
          As sings his message to the sun,
          And goes to sleep when day be done,
          Respectable like!

      NATHAN’L. [_Coming forward._]
          Queer things,
          These here rings
          You sees in the grass
          When you pass.
          They say ’tis where Pharisees dances at night!
          Be that right?

      COLOMBINE. Quite right; yet once the circle that you see,
    Saw war and tumult.

      DAN’L.           Lawks-a-mussey me!

      COLOMBINE. The Roman legions camped on yonder brow,
    And built the road you stand on.

      NATHAN’L.                     Did they now!

      COLOMBINE. The sun would sink out yonder in the west,
    And shine upon their helmets.

      DAN’L.                      Well I’m blest!

      COLOMBINE. The very spot where Julius Caesar sat,
    Lies just behind those beeches.

      NATHAN’L.                    Think of that!

      COLOMBINE. In yonder barrow treasures rare lie hid.
    Dig deep to find them.

      DAN’L.               Well I never did!

      NATHAN’L. But when did all this
                Happen, Miss?
                How many years ago,
                I’d like to know?

      COLOMBINE. Roughly two thousand, on this very spot.

      DAN’L. Lor! What a memory you must have got.

      COLOMBINE. [_To_ NATHAN’L.] But tell me please;
    Beneath these trees,
    What travellers come, and whither bound?
    Do still these ancient heights resound
    With martial music and the tramp of men?

      NATHAN’L. Us gets a hurdy-gurdy now and then,
    And once a clown on stilts went through the wood;
    And oh! he could catch pennies, that he could.

      COLOMBINE. But in what fashion do you pass your days?

      NATHAN’L. I kill the time in various sorts of ways.
    Scaring the rooks as settles on the corn;
    Helping the shepherd when the lambs be born.
    Talking to Dan’l about these here rings,
    And wondering about a power of things.
    As don’t concern nobody, I suppose.
    But then, you must do summat, goodness knows.

      COLOMBINE. Of course. ’Tis lonely here without a doubt.
    What are the things you’re wondering about
    To-day?

[Illustration]

      NATHAN’L. Such things as surely never was.
    Such things as surely no one ever does.
    And yet, of nothing, for they moves so fast,
    You finds as you’ve forgotten them at last.
    Just like a dream they passes and be gone.
    Just like a dream they passes....

      COLOMBINE.                      Yes, go on.

      NATHAN’L. Just like a dream, for though I thinks a lot,
    Before they’re rightly thought they’re clean forgot.
    Though somehow, now I sits and talks to you,
    I keeps remembering things I never knew.
    Just like as though somebody slammed a door,
    When you was going where you’d been before;
    Leaving you standing on the further side,
    Wondering at what was happening inside.
    Whether the folk you knew was there or not;
    Whether you really knew, and had forgot;
    Whether you’d been there once when you was small,
    Or whether you was never there at all.
    ’Tis plaguey awkerd, wondering, that it be.
    And now I must be off, I wants my tea.                    [_Exit._

      COLOMBINE. Good-bye. And think sometimes of me.

                           [_Rousing herself from the brown study into
                             which this revelation has thrown her, and
                             addressing_ DAN’L.

    Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. [_Startled._] Eh?

      COLOMBINE. Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. It all depends. Why?

      COLOMBINE. There’s going to be a fight.

      DAN’L. When? Where?

      COLOMBINE. Very soon.
             By the light of the moon.
             On the very stroke of nine.
             All for love of Colombine.

      DAN’L. Shall I fetch a policeman?

      COLOMBINE. A policeman! Dear me, no.

      DAN’L. Who’s going to fight.

      COLOMBINE. Don’t you know?
                             Harlequin and Pierrot.

      DAN’L. Never heard of they.

      COLOMBINE. Won’t it be fun?

      DAN’L. Good fun
                      For the one as gets killed.

      COLOMBINE. But they won’t kill each other. They never do. They’re
    _most_ dependable.

      DAN’L. Have um fought before?

      COLOMBINE. Of course. Hundreds of times.

      DAN’L. Silly young chaps.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. They’re not silly. They’re fighting for me. Don’t you
    understand?

      DAN’L. I fought about a girl once. But only once. It was a long
    time ago.

      COLOMBINE. You’re not romantic. Romance would die if it wasn’t
    for fighting. Romance _is_ fighting.

      DAN’L. Then I’ve had quite enough romance to please me.

      COLOMBINE. All properly constituted love affairs should include
    a fight. Love without fighting is insipid.

      DAN’L. _You_ don’t have to do the fighting. Which of ’em loves
    you the most?

      COLOMBINE. Why, Pierrot, of course.

      DAN’L. Then why don’t you marry him?

      COLOMBINE. And disappoint Harlequin? I couldn’t do that.

      DAN’L. When are you going to decide?

      COLOMBINE. I don’t know. [_On her fingers._] This year, next
    year, some time, never. To-night perhaps.

      DAN’L. One day they’ll get tired of fighting. What then?

      COLOMBINE. Never!

      DAN’L. You’re sure of that?

      COLOMBINE. Oh, yes. Quite sure.

      DAN’L. One of them may get killed.

      COLOMBINE. They wouldn’t be so careless.

      DAN’L. What should you do if one of ’em got killed by accident?

      COLOMBINE. I should be very angry. But you’re very horrid to
    suggest such things. Why don’t you go away?

      DAN’L. Good-bye.

      COLOMBINE. No, stay.

      DAN’L. Well, I’m fond of a fight, I must say.

      COLOMBINE. Hush! They are coming. Quick, behind this tree.

      DAN’L. Anywhere in the background’s good enough for me.

      COLOMBINE. A fight, a fight! And all for love of me.

                    [_The orchestra plays quietly the Soldiers’ Chorus
                        and snatches of other martial refrains. The
                        two watchers betray tense excitement._
                        HARLEQUIN _and_ PIERROT _enter arm in arm.
                        Any differences they may have had are evidently
                        settled._ COLOMBINE _looks on in astonishment_.

[Illustration]

      HARLEQUIN. Mind you, as girls go, Colombine’s one of the best.

      PIERROT. Ah yes.

      HARLEQUIN. But nothing to fight about.

      PIERROT. [_Without conviction._] No.

      HARLEQUIN. And fighting’s going out of fashion. There’s no doubt
    about that.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. The whole trend of modern thought is opposed to it.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. None of the best people do it.

      PIERROT. I suppose not.

      HARLEQUIN. And one must be in the movement.

      PIERROT. Of course.

      HARLEQUIN. Arbitration’s the thing nowadays.

      PIERROT. What’s that?

      HARLEQUIN. Why, you each talk until you’re out of breath, and
    the one with most breath wins.

      PIERROT. [_Taking a deep breath._] That seems a good idea.

      HARLEQUIN. It is.

      PIERROT. But what will Colombine say if we don’t fight? She loves
    to watch us fight.

      HARLEQUIN. My dear chap, we must be firm. Adopt your point of
    view, and stick to it in the face of all opposition.

      COLOMBINE. [_Advancing._] Aren’t you going to fight?

      PIERROT. [_Kindly._] Not to-night.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! Why not?

      HARLEQUIN. Well, we’ve got
                 Other fish to fry,
                 That’s why.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! do fight!

      PIERROT. Not to-night.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, my dear girl, do listen to reason. You will admit,
    I suppose, that the most elementary point about a duel is to spit
    your opponent through the gizzard.

      COLOMBINE. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. Well, I haven’t got a gizzard, and what’s the use of
    trying to spit a man’s gizzard, if he hasn’t got a gizzard to spit?
    You must be reasonable.

      COLOMBINE. How do you know you haven’t got a gizzard?

      HARLEQUIN. We don’t know for certain, we assume.

      PIERROT. You’ve only to look at him to see there isn’t room.

      COLOMBINE. But why the gizzard? What does it matter _where_ you
    spit him so long as you do spit him?

      HARLEQUIN. For heaven’s sake, my dear girl, don’t preach such
    revolutionary doctrines. There is a certain etiquette to be
    observed, even in a battle.

      COLOMBINE. [_After a pause._] But it’s quite simple. You spit
    Pierrot. He’s got a gizzard, I suppose.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. Pierrot consulted a phrenologist....

      PIERROT. Soothsayer!

      HARLEQUIN. Sorry--soothsayer, who said he was born to be hung....

      PIERROT. Hanged!

      HARLEQUIN. Hanged, and so of course, he doesn’t want to run the
    risk of disappointing him.

      COLOMBINE. Very considerate, I’m sure.
    I think you’re absolutely _horrid_, there.               [_Cries._

      HARLEQUIN. [_To_ PIERROT.] Don’t waver, both together.

      HARLEQUIN and PIERROT. We don’t care
          Tuppence what you think or say,
          We talked the matter over, here to-day;
          And arbitration is the only way.

      COLOMBINE. You’re frightened.

      HARLEQUIN. Don’t be silly. Frightened! Me!

      COLOMBINE. Well, who’s your arbitrator going to be?

      HARLEQUIN. [_Taken aback._] Why yes, we must have someone, I
        suppose.
    But who’s to do it?

      PIERROT.          Goodness only knows!
    There’s not a single person within call.

    COLOMBINE. [_Clapping her hands._] Hurrah! You’ll have to fight,
      then, after all.

                       [_There is a pause, during which_ PIERROT _and_
                       HARLEQUIN _look at each other in dismay_.
                       COLOMBINE _on the other hand claps her
                       hands and pirouettes round the stage. Then_
                       HARLEQUIN _sees_ DAN’L _and drags him forward
                       at the same time speaking in asides_.

      HARLEQUIN. What’s your name?

      DAN’L. Much the same
            As it’s always bin,
            Week out, week in,
            This seventy year and more.

      HARLEQUIN. Good! We want you to arbitrate.
    You’re the very man.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey. I’ll do it if I can.

      HARLEQUIN. There’s much gold.
               Wealth untold!
               If you only do
               As I tell you to.

      DAN’L. Fire away!

      HARLEQUIN. Until to-day, Pierrot and I have been in the habit of
    engaging in mortal combat for the hand of Colombine. Owing to the
    fact that up to the present neither has had the decency to get
    killed, and as a result of the wave of anti-militarism that has
    swept over the country, we have decided to fall back on arbitration.
    And you are the arbitrator. You understand?

      DAN’L. No!

      HARLEQUIN. Then you’re very thick.

      DAN’L. You speaks too quick
    And the way you keeps hopping about makes me fair mazed.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. One of us is to marry
    Colombine, and you’ve to decide which it’s to be.
    Do you see?

      DAN’L. No.

      HARLEQUIN. But it’s quite simple.

      DAN’L. Maybe. But how do I know which it’s to be?

      HARLEQUIN. I’ll let you into a secret. It’s me!

      DAN’L. Oh! And if I goes and sez ’tis you,
    What’s yon chap in the white trousers going to do?

      HARLEQUIN. Never mind him. He’s a fool.

      DAN’L. It seems it don’t much matter what I say;
    I’m bound to upset one of ye either way.
    Oh! very well.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Pierrot! Gather round.

                        [_They sit in a semicircle_; COLOMBINE _and_
                          DAN’L _in the centre_.

      DAN’L. I shall catch my death of cold, sitting on this damp
    ground.

                        [_There is silence, each waiting for the other
                          to speak._

      COLOMBINE. You don’t seem very anxious, either of you.

      DAN’L. Who goes first?

      HARLEQUIN. If I don’t say something, and quickly, I shall burst.

      DAN’L. Then you’d best get started. [_Aside._] How long will it take?

      HARLEQUIN. Until it’s ended.

      DAN’L. Cut it short for goodness’ sake.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Let me take you away from these lonely hills.
    Into the heart of the world where lies the Land of Yesterday. There
    are stored all the happy hours that you have known. You shall live
    them all over again, Colombine--every one. I will lead you by secret
    paths, through the dim woods of yesternight until we stand together
    in the sunlight of the days that have been. Walking backward through
    the years, we will collect those dear lost delights, of which only
    the memory remains. From all that has gone before, it shall be yours
    to pick and choose, and no To-morrow shall throw its ominous shade
    before. The past shall deliver up its treasures to your hand; regrets
    shall be ended, and happiness shall be sure. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. No, Harlequin. The road to your Land of Yesterday is
    longer than you know, and there is no going back. Let us still take
    from the past our memories and our dreams, but do not ask for more,
    lest even these be denied.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: THE GATEWAY OF HAPPINESS]

      HARLEQUIN. As you will. Then it is to the future that we must
    turn. Colombine, far from here, set in a desert of hot sand, is a
    crystal, so large, that all the giants of Africa could not stir
    it the thickness of a hair. Peering into its depths, you may read
    your future to the end of time. A day, a week, a year, shall be no
    barrier to the vision of the mind. You may read all the riddles of
    the universe, and there will remain nothing that you do not know. You
    shall see your face as it will be when twice twenty harvest moons
    have waned, and fifty summer suns have set. And I, alone, can point
    you the way. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. You promise much, Harlequin. It may well be that in some
    spot remote from the haunts of men, the Mirror of Fate yet lies hid.
    And you may find it. Who knows! But this, at least, is certain; the
    path will be difficult and the journey long. Would you not tire by
    the way, Harlequin? I think you would. [_Pause._] And, it is not in
    distant deserts I would seek. In the woods of home, hearts may thrill
    to the eloquent silences of the night. [HARLEQUIN _rises_.] All the
    secrets of the world might be ours, did we but care to learn the
    simple language of the nightingale. Across the moonlight, the shadows
    of the branches trace unforgettable things. Great secrets tremble on
    the lips of the leaves, and mortals grope vainly in the daylight for
    things seen most plainly in the dark.

      DAN’L. [_Coughing to draw attention to himself._]
    I’ve allus noticed, in whatever parts I med ha’ bin,
    A maid in love have allus got a fairish yarn to spin.
    And in whatever parts I’ve bin, I’ve allus noticed too,
    The foolish lads do take it all for gospel, that um do.
    But though I’ve kept good notice in whatever parts I was,
    I’ve never heard a maid to spin a yarn like this un does.
    Ur be a marvel, that ur be; I hope as ur won’t try
    When ur’s tired of you two fellows here, to spin no yarns to I;
    For fools be mostly biggest fools when um be old and grey.
    And if I went along o’ she, what _ud_ my missus say.
    Next man?

      COLOMBINE. Come, Pierrot!

      PIERROT. [_With an effort._] Colombine!

      COLOMBINE. Yes, Pierrot.

      HARLEQUIN. Go on!

      DAN’L. Let’s hear what you’ve got to say, young fellow.

      PIERROT. There is nothing to say.

      COLOMBINE. Nothing to say!

      PIERROT. Save that I love you, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. And is that so small a thing, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. But I have nothing to offer you, nothing.

      COLOMBINE. [_Softly._] Save yourself.

      HARLEQUIN. I have always said that Pierrot was master of sounding
    silences. The sweetest singer of unsung songs, his eloquent nothings
    go shrieking through the void. He scorns to desecrate the virgin
    purity of his foolscap with the written word. What love is that which
    dare not tell its love? Come, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. See, Harlequin, here is a beech nut. You shake it, yet
    there is no sound. Is it full? Is it empty?

      HARLEQUIN. Who can say?

      DAN’L. Likewise, young Nathan’l he picks up a match-box last week,
    and throws it away because there was no sound when he rattles en
    [_To_ HARLEQUIN.] And what do you think?

      HARLEQUIN. I couldn’t say.

      DAN’L. It was so full all the time as not to rattle at all.

      HARLEQUIN. [_Scornfully._] Matches! ye gods! Let’s talk of cucumbers,
    Or shame the glory of this summer night
    With tales of warming-pans.
    Has no one here a button-hook,
    With which to probe the vast unsounded deeps
    [_To_ DAN’L.] Of thy poor addled brain.
    It yet may be,
    In some uncharted corner of the void
    That passes for thy mind,
    We find a collar-stud.
    Farewell!                                                 [_Exit._

      DAN’L. Well, he won’t come back again, that I will be bound,
    And as I be catching my death of cold, sitting on this damp ground,
    I’d best be moving. [_Rises._] Ugh! Good-night to ee.

      PIERROT. Good-night!

      COLOMBINE. [_Aside to_ DAN’L.] And, Mr. Arbitrator, if you see
    Your friend Nathan’l, say that Pierrot
    Owes more to him than he will ever know. [_Exit_ DAN’L.

      COLOMBINE. They have gone!

      PIERROT. Ah!

      COLOMBINE. And the night draws on.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      COLOMBINE. You are sad. Why are you sad, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. I cannot tell.

      COLOMBINE. And you are cold. Is it the night air?

      PIERROT. The wind-swept wold
    Is a street of gold,
    So my lady be walking there.

      COLOMBINE. Yet you are sad. See, they have gone and will not
    come again.

      PIERROT. So love may vanish too,
    And of his chain no link remain
    To tell the way he flew.

      COLOMBINE. Love, as the skylark, soars into that Heaven where’t
    fain would be.

      PIERROT. And singing still, returns. Time was when you, with
    Harlequin, would revel till the cold grey dawn came in.

      COLOMBINE. Light loves sometime were pleasant, but to-night the
    face of love seems changed. No more will stray this wandering heart
    of mine.

      PIERROT. Are you not sorry, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. Sorry for what, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. For loss of Harlequin.

      COLOMBINE. Harlequin is very clever but he talks of what he does
    not know, and promises what is not his to give. Cleverness is not
    everything, Pierrot. The mind is like a garden full of flowers, but
        The heart is a little house,
        With windows facing southerly;
        By which a pathway winds.
        And there, behind the blinds,
        We sit and wait,
        Watching, waiting for what?
        We know not.

    The garden is a pleasant place in summer, but when it is winter, we
    seek the fireside of the little house.

      PIERROT. Yet you are fond of gardens and pretty flowers, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. What flowers grow
          In your garden, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. My garden is full of the flowers,
          My mother planted for me;
          Curious, old-world flowers,
          Thyme, lavender, rosemary.
          Planted in days gone by.
          And, though no gardener I,
          As the shadows fall, I tend them all;
          Watering, pruning there.
          Am I happy in my lot?
          I know not.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. And there is the little house, Pierrot.

      PIERROT. Ah, yes there is the little house.
          Do you remember when
          You peeped through the pane, and then
          Went on your way again?
          Out of my sight, although,
          I beckoned you as you passed,
          And sat at my window mournfully.
          But you came again at last.
          And, seeing you come, I said;
          “The flowers in my garden are dead,
          So will she have no more of me.”

    COLOMBINE. I am knocking at the door, Pierrot.
          Knocking and waiting there,
          For the sound of a step on the stair.
          Will you open to me, Pierrot?

                                [PIERROT’S _answer may be taken in the
                                  affirmative. As they sit together, it
                                  grows dark._

[Illustration]

      PIERROT. [_Rising._] Come dear, and let us go,
    Together, hand in hand,
    Into that sun-lit land,
    Where life and love are things inseparable.
    Where, beneath cloudless skies,
    The happy are the wise,
    And none reprove the glory of a love they may not understand.

                                                     [_Exit together._
                          [_It becomes quite dark_: DAN’L _and an_ OLD
                            MAN _pass slowly across the stage, carrying
                            lanterns, and peering cautiously into the
                            blackness of the night_.

      THE OLD MAN. You was dreaming, Dan’l. That’s about the size of it.

      DAN’L. And I tells ee I wur as wide awake as you be. Us had been
    sitting over-long by the clump, and all of a sudden I looks up and
    sees a fairy. “Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l,” I sez, “be I dreaming or
    be I cracked?”

                              [_They pass off, and the curtain falls._


                                FINIS

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                             OTHER VERSES




                            THE MARIONETTE


        Man is merely a marionette
          On invisible wires suspended.
        And it’s just as well he shouldn’t forget
            That Fate the showman is in the wings,
            Working the business and pulling the strings
        Till his turn is over and ended.

        Man is merely a figure on strings,
          By the glare of the footlights blinded.
        And the wonderful way he dances and sings
            Is not unlikely to fill his mind
            With a great contempt for the Power behind,
        Till suddenly he’s reminded.

        Man is the cream of an idle jest,
          A smile on the face of sorrow.
        A sad peculiar figure at best;
            Willing to sacrifice every day,
            Breaking his heart in the hope of play
        On a problematical morrow.




                          A LETTER FROM HOME


        I’ve a letter from home to-day;
        A letter from home to say
        That they’re cutting the trees in the Priory Wood,
        That lambing is over and crops are good.
        Quite the usual thing, be it understood,
        Is my letter from home, to-day.

        I’ve a letter from home, to-day;
        A letter from far away,
        Bidding me ever to bear in mind
        The dear old friends I have left behind.
        But I’m not of the quickly forgetting kind,
        Dear letter from home, to-day!

        In my letter from home, to-day;
        Is a postscript, just to say
        “No doubt you’ll be very much grieved to hear
        That the girl who stayed at the Grange last year,
        Is dead, and was yesterday buried here.”
        And the world has ended, to-day.




                           THE EXPLANATION


                How do I know I love you?
                Why, because
                When you’re away, d’ye see,
                I kind o’ wanders lonesome like
                An’ frets,
                ’Cause you’re not there with me.
                An’ when I meet you by the stile
                At night,
                And not a soul to see,
                I scarce durst speak to you because
                You’re you, an’ I’m just me.




                              MEMORANDA


                In your Book of Memory,
                Set aside no page for me.
                Do not write our friendship there,
                But, if you’ve the time to spare,
                Scribble just this hurried line:
                “He was once a friend of mine.”

                Blot it very carefully,
                Turn the page that none may see.
                Life goes singing down the way
                Different ballads every day.
                Other pages open fair,
                Set new tales of friendship there.

                And the day will come maybe,
                When that hurried line of me;
                Seen by chance a moment’s space,
                Will recall a vanished face,
                And a memory sweeter than
                Many written pages can.




                      LOVE, LAUGHTER, AND AFTER


            The ruinous cottage, the broken latch;
            The cold stone floor and the dripping thatch.
            The ripe red lips of the girl who stands
            Holding her lover’s hands.

            The gay Casino, the fancy ball;
            The twinkling lights of the crowded hall.
            The cool sweet air of the terrace dim,
            Love and laughter and--him.

            The pitiful pageant that follows soon;
            The music hall and the cheap saloon.
            The sad procession, the coffee stall.
            The river that ends it all.




                             TH’ COORTIN’


                ’Tis just about a wik ago,
                  Or mebbe two, or theresabout,
                As I axed Kate why ur an’ Joe
                  Was seed together waalking out;
                Whenas, fur nigh upon a year,
                ’Twur I as had been coortin’ ur.

                “Why, laws-a-mussey, Bill,” ur sez,
                  “Fur certain sure ye must allow
                Us two caan’t alluz spend our days
                  The same as us be doin’ now.
                Ye’d better wed wi’ one ye doan’t
                Than waalk wi’ one ye do, as woan’t.”

                I cudden zackly understand
                  What ’twur as she was drivin’ at,
                Until I cotched ur by the hand
                  And took a peep ’erneath ur hat.
                Wur what I see surprised I so,
                  I gi’ed ur kiss, an’ whispered low:
                “Ye’d better wed the feller who
                Has alluz bin in luv wi’ you.”
                And that’s just what ur means to do.




                              AGREEMENT

                    Oyez! Oyez! Behold we state
                    The rules of this our Syndicate.


              Let it be granted first of all,
              That you are not so young and small
              As foolish people would suppose,
              From your long hair and shorter clothes.

              Item the second, please agree
              To just the opposite in me.
              For would the wisest man alive
              Imagine I was twenty-five?

              This done, folk cannot make a fuss,
              Or say that we’re preposterous.
              For you become, as all may see,
              A chaperone in charge of me.

              Thirdly, this reservation’s made,
              The Syndicate’s too old and staid
              To ride (though you’ll object no doubt)
              In swinging boat and roundabout.

              Fourthly, the world’s a dear old place,
              So always keep a smiling face.
              It suits you best, and as to that,
              So does pink chiffon in your hat.

              Lastly, lest envious folk combine
              To wreck your Syndicate, and mine,
              My autograph is here affixed,
              Written in blood and water mixed.

       _P.S._ It may not look like blood to you
              But recollect my blood is blue.




                             THE BURYIN’


                The mists be on the river bed,
                The roses all be gone;
                And here be I, about to die,
                Wi’ harvest coming on.
                Dear Lord, I’ve trapsed some weary miles,
                I’ll be main glad to rest awhiles.

                The folk’ll soon be in the fields,
                A-getting in the grain.
                For most of those, the time I’ve chose
                Be awkerd in the main.
                Though not so bad, ’tis sure, for they
                As be a-working by the day.

                September be a better month
                For all the carter men;
                And when I die don’t signify,
                So let I bide till then.
                The wagons’ll be standing by,
                And there’ll be time to bury I.




                          A ZONG TO ZING-OH!


            When the zun beyond the Beacon be a-zettin’
            And everything’s as quiet as can be,
            By the gate to varmur’s meddy,
            That old gate zo vurm and zteddy,
            You be pretty zure uv vindin’ Jim and me.

            When the mists along the valley be uprisin’
            And the nightingale’s a-zingin’ in the tree;
            When the peewits be a-zquawkin’
            Uz don’t waste no time a-talkin’
            Time’s a vasty zight too short sez Jim an’ me

            With the honeyzuckle zcent zo thick as treacle,
            And the chestnut blossoms droppin’ onto we;
            As us zets zo close together,
            Why zometimes I wonders whether
            Jim ull zet that close in Paradise to me.

            When the clocks down in the village be a-strikin’
            And darkness comes a-creepin’ up the lea,
            Then, though us be zeldom ready,
            Us must leave old varmur’s meddy,
            Or the volk ull all be wonderin’ where us be.




                                 SONG


            Long ago,
            (How long ago I really don’t know;)
            A kingfisher lived in a valley of green,
            The finest kingfisher that ever was seen--
            In that little green valley I know.

            Silent and slow
            All in a row, buttercups grow.
            One day the kingfisher selected his queen,
            And the bride wore a costume of purple and green
            ’Neath the willows that stand in a row.

            Heigho!
            (As the years go, still the streams flow)
            The whole of this summer they haven’t been seen,
            And a wood-pecker reigns in that valley serene.
            Where they’ve gone to I really don’t know.




                              PHILOSOPHY


                When I was young, in days gone by,
                I smoked Wild Woodbines on the sly.
                They made me ill, but what of that?
                ’Twas nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                If I had shirked that pallid brow
                I couldn’t smoke Havanas now.

                The only girl I ever kissed,
                Both found and left an optimist.
                She jilted me, but even that
                Was nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                I’ve such a cozy little den,
                And know a lot of married men.

                And now, although I’m getting stout,
                And though my hair is falling out,
                And people call me old and fat,
                There’s nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                Although I am a perfect fright,
                I don’t look bad by candle light.




                               FORFEITS


                You fail to catch the trencher spun
                And, later, when the game is done,
                The lady who collects the fees
                Demands a forfeit, if you please.
                You find a penny, grimed and black,
                And hope that you may get it back.

                You sit in speechless misery,
                And wonder what your fate will be,
                Until, within that giggling ring,
                You have to claim the wretched thing;
                Then sally forth upon your quest,
                To kiss the one you love the best.

                You don’t appreciate the fun,
                But curb a wild desire to run;
                Then seek a matron staid and stout,
                And drag the willing victim out;
                Because, of course, it wouldn’t do
                To kiss the girl you wanted to.




                             THE REVIVAL


            Take me away, for I will see no more;
            It was but yesterday I saw the play before,
            The day on which my dear and I were wed--
            Your mother, child--your mother who is dead.
            Why did you bring me here to see a play
            Which she and I saw only yesterday?




                         A PATRON OF THE ARTS


                    I knew a lady once I did,
                    Who lived away at Pontypridd;
                    She liked my verses very much,
                    And said I had the lyric touch.

                    She used to ask me round to lunch,
                    And say I ought to edit “Punch,”
                    As Owen S. and Francis B.,
                    Were amateurs compared to me.

                    Last week I met her in a batch
                    Of lunatics at Colney Hatch,
                    And heard she always spoke of me
                    As far surpassing Calverley.




                              CRITICISM


                A simple poet on a time,
                Resolved to write a simple rhyme.
                His verse was pleasing to the ear;
                He also made his meaning clear.

                The critics glanced at it, and said
                Such rubbish they had never read.
                A point on which they did agree,
                With touching unanimity.

                The simple poet took his lay,
                And turned it round the other way.
                Shuffled the sentences about,
                And took a dozen commas out.

                The critics took the volume, and
                Read, marked--and failed to understand.
                Then fell upon their stomachs flat,
                This prodigy to marvel at.




                           TREASON AND PLOT


                When I am very, very rich,
                  And very famous, too,
                I’ll take a cab to Regent’s Park,
                  And walk into the Zoo
                With quite a consequential air,
                For I shall be the richest there.

                And in a lordly way I’ll take
                  A shilling from my purse,
                And buy the biggest rattle-snake
                  To carry home to Nurse,
                And, as she’s very short of breath,
                Perhaps ’twill frighten her to death.




                        THE POPPY AND THE POET


                Like poppies in the golden corn,
                  The poet’s race is run;
                Each strives alike to gain the ear;
                  The poppy from the sun
                Borrows more radiance than gold--
                A poet’s much the same, I’m told.

                But still these differences appear
                  When everything is said;
                The poet’s leaves, I greatly fear,
                  Are very seldom read.
                Poppies but borrow from the sun--
                A poet will from anyone.




                              EL DORADO


                He sought it through the golden isles
                Of Once Upon a Time.
                In fabled fields of Might Have Been
                He heard its distant chime.
                He saw, mid Dreamland’s mystic glades,
                Its turrets from afar;
                And found it in the valley, where
                The deepest shadows are.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


The Project Gutenberg eBook of Colombine a fantasy
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Colombine a fantasy
        and other verses

Author: Reginald Arkell

Illustrator: Frederick Carter

Release date: June 19, 2025 [eBook #76341]

Language: English

Original publication: London: Benn and Cronin, Ltd, 1911

Credits: Carol Brown, Charlene Taylor and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***

Transcriber’s Note:

Words and phrases in italics are surrounded by underscores, _like
this_.

“ro” was changed to “to” ... desire to run ...




  COLOMBINE

  A FANTASY

  AND OTHER VERSES




  _LONDON_
  BENN AND CRONIN, LTD.
  CRAVEN HOUSE, KINGSWAY, W.C.
  1911




       _Copyright: Entered at Stationers’ Hall, December 1911.
                  Acting Rights strictly Reserved._




[Illustration: COLOMBINE.]




[Illustration:

  COLOMBINE
  A FANTASY

  BY REGINALD ARKELL

  WITH SOME DRAWINGS
  BY FREDERICK CARTER.]




[Illustration]




                            AUTHOR’S NOTE

“COLOMBINE” was first performed at Clavier Hall, Hanover Square, W.,
on Thursday, 7th December 1911, with the following cast:

    Dan’l (an old man)         MR. B. BUTLER.
    Nathan’l (a boy)           MR. A. E. FILMER.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Harlequin                  MR. REGINALD BACH.
    Pierrot                    MR. MARK HANNAM.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Colombine                  MISS ETHEL EVANS.

    The play was produced by MR. A. E. FILMER.


                                SCENE

  A ROMAN CAMP on the summit of Cissbury Beacon in the South Downs.
     A fairy ring occupies the foreground. All round are beech trees.
     The time is evening.




[Illustration]




                               PROLOGUE


    There are circles of green upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the Pharisees dance--so they say;
    Revelling merrily round it until
    The dawn over Ditchling is gray.
    And travellers lost upon Cissbury Hill--
    (Pixy-led folk who stray)
    Seated on toad-stools, with fairy folk sup,
    _But here, in Haymarket, the roadway is up_.

    There are circles of beech upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the leaves of a lifetime decay;
    Hiding the memories, lingering still,
    Of Rome’s indisputable sway.
    And under the beech-leaves of Cissbury Hill,
    Throbs the heart of the downland alway.
    While dreaming of chieftains and warriors in woad,
    _You’re lighting your pipe in the Charing Cross Road_.




[Illustration]




                              COLOMBINE


     _An old man and a boy are seen talking; both are labourers.
                 The old man, who is seated, speaks_:

      DAN’L. Well, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. There’s little use in stopping here much longer.

      NATHAN’L. Not as I can see.

      DAN’L. Like my old eyes, the sun don’t grow no stronger.

      NATHAN’L. And I wants my tea.

      DAN’L. Do ee, lad?

      NATHAN’L. Ah, main bad.

      DAN’L. Which means ’tis time to go, I reckons.

      NATHAN’L. That’s a proposition as I seconds.

      DAN’L. Come on then, let’s be moving. Tip us yer daddle.

      NATHAN’L. All of a sudden you be in a mortal caddle.
    I wants to hear the finish of that yarn
    As you was spinning down at Tranter’s Barn.
    A peck of troubles it was all about.
    I wants to know how everything turned out.

      DAN’L. You wants your tea, that’s what you wants, my son.

      NATHAN’L. There’s time enough for tea when you be done.

      DAN’L. Well, though ’tis little enough I read,
    I sid in a story-book years ago,
    (Though mind, Nathan’l, there beant no need
    To be letting on as I told ee so)
    That all the troubles as worrits a man
    Was locked in a box when the world began.

    And there no doubt they’d ha’ bid till now,
    If the dummel soul as had got the key,
    Hadn’t got mixed up with a maid somehow
    And gone and handed it over to she.
    And what do ee fancy the maiden did?
    Darn me, Nathan’l, ur lifted the lid.

[Illustration]

    And all they troubles come trooping out,
    Like hens from a chicken-run might have done.
    For the maiden fancied without a doubt,
    They’d go back in the evening like, one by one.
    But time’s got to settle a few more clocks,
    Afore they troubles goes back to their box.

    Straight, Nathan’l, ’tis near enough
    To make a methody parson swear.
    And every time as I reads such stuff,
    I goes so red as yon moon up there.
    To think of the trouble ur brought on we--
    I reckon I owes my old gal to she.

      NATHAN’L. Is it true, do ee think, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, mebbe not, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee think, Dan’l--she let out the lot?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe not.

      NATHAN’L. Sounds like a fairy story to me.

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe, mebbe.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee believe in fairies, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Can’t be sure as I do, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, I don’t anyway, and that’s a fact.

                          _Enter_ COLOMBINE.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l, be I dreaming or be I cracked?

      NATHAN’L. My goodness, Dan’l, I do believe as she’s a fairy....

      DAN’L. Here, come into the shadow of these trees,
    And give that clacking tongue of yourn a rest.

      NATHAN’L. Oh, this be more wonderful than all the things I ever
          guessed.

      DAN’L. And it means _summat_ that you _may_ depend.

      NATHAN’L. See, where she walks, the grass don’t even bend
    Beneath her feet. She be a fairy, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. I wish you’d hold your clacking tongue, Nathan’l.

                      [COLOMBINE, _hearing a noise, pauses to listen_.

      COLOMBINE. Who’s there? The daylight fades. I cannot see.

      DAN’L. You go.

      NATHAN’L.     No, you.

      DAN’L.                So please you, Miss, ’tis we.

      COLOMBINE. Good evening, Sirs.

      DAN’L.                Our best respects to ee.
    A goodish evening to be sure, but getting dark and cold.
    Time gals like you was safe abed, if I might make so bold.

      COLOMBINE. Old man, the night has but begun.

      DAN’L. The day be done.

      COLOMBINE. The moon has scarcely risen yet.

      DAN’L. The sun have set.

      COLOMBINE. The sun his wandering footsteps stays to greet the crescent moon.
    The nightjar and the nightingale will both be singing soon.

      DAN’L. Us don’t set much store by nightingales in these parts,
            and as for nightjars! Oh lor, us shoots they.
          Give I a linnet now,
          A-sitting on a bough;
          As sings his message to the sun,
          And goes to sleep when day be done,
          Respectable like!

      NATHAN’L. [_Coming forward._]
          Queer things,
          These here rings
          You sees in the grass
          When you pass.
          They say ’tis where Pharisees dances at night!
          Be that right?

      COLOMBINE. Quite right; yet once the circle that you see,
    Saw war and tumult.

      DAN’L.           Lawks-a-mussey me!

      COLOMBINE. The Roman legions camped on yonder brow,
    And built the road you stand on.

      NATHAN’L.                     Did they now!

      COLOMBINE. The sun would sink out yonder in the west,
    And shine upon their helmets.

      DAN’L.                      Well I’m blest!

      COLOMBINE. The very spot where Julius Caesar sat,
    Lies just behind those beeches.

      NATHAN’L.                    Think of that!

      COLOMBINE. In yonder barrow treasures rare lie hid.
    Dig deep to find them.

      DAN’L.               Well I never did!

      NATHAN’L. But when did all this
                Happen, Miss?
                How many years ago,
                I’d like to know?

      COLOMBINE. Roughly two thousand, on this very spot.

      DAN’L. Lor! What a memory you must have got.

      COLOMBINE. [_To_ NATHAN’L.] But tell me please;
    Beneath these trees,
    What travellers come, and whither bound?
    Do still these ancient heights resound
    With martial music and the tramp of men?

      NATHAN’L. Us gets a hurdy-gurdy now and then,
    And once a clown on stilts went through the wood;
    And oh! he could catch pennies, that he could.

      COLOMBINE. But in what fashion do you pass your days?

      NATHAN’L. I kill the time in various sorts of ways.
    Scaring the rooks as settles on the corn;
    Helping the shepherd when the lambs be born.
    Talking to Dan’l about these here rings,
    And wondering about a power of things.
    As don’t concern nobody, I suppose.
    But then, you must do summat, goodness knows.

      COLOMBINE. Of course. ’Tis lonely here without a doubt.
    What are the things you’re wondering about
    To-day?

[Illustration]

      NATHAN’L. Such things as surely never was.
    Such things as surely no one ever does.
    And yet, of nothing, for they moves so fast,
    You finds as you’ve forgotten them at last.
    Just like a dream they passes and be gone.
    Just like a dream they passes....

      COLOMBINE.                      Yes, go on.

      NATHAN’L. Just like a dream, for though I thinks a lot,
    Before they’re rightly thought they’re clean forgot.
    Though somehow, now I sits and talks to you,
    I keeps remembering things I never knew.
    Just like as though somebody slammed a door,
    When you was going where you’d been before;
    Leaving you standing on the further side,
    Wondering at what was happening inside.
    Whether the folk you knew was there or not;
    Whether you really knew, and had forgot;
    Whether you’d been there once when you was small,
    Or whether you was never there at all.
    ’Tis plaguey awkerd, wondering, that it be.
    And now I must be off, I wants my tea.                    [_Exit._

      COLOMBINE. Good-bye. And think sometimes of me.

                           [_Rousing herself from the brown study into
                             which this revelation has thrown her, and
                             addressing_ DAN’L.

    Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. [_Startled._] Eh?

      COLOMBINE. Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. It all depends. Why?

      COLOMBINE. There’s going to be a fight.

      DAN’L. When? Where?

      COLOMBINE. Very soon.
             By the light of the moon.
             On the very stroke of nine.
             All for love of Colombine.

      DAN’L. Shall I fetch a policeman?

      COLOMBINE. A policeman! Dear me, no.

      DAN’L. Who’s going to fight.

      COLOMBINE. Don’t you know?
                             Harlequin and Pierrot.

      DAN’L. Never heard of they.

      COLOMBINE. Won’t it be fun?

      DAN’L. Good fun
                      For the one as gets killed.

      COLOMBINE. But they won’t kill each other. They never do. They’re
    _most_ dependable.

      DAN’L. Have um fought before?

      COLOMBINE. Of course. Hundreds of times.

      DAN’L. Silly young chaps.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. They’re not silly. They’re fighting for me. Don’t you
    understand?

      DAN’L. I fought about a girl once. But only once. It was a long
    time ago.

      COLOMBINE. You’re not romantic. Romance would die if it wasn’t
    for fighting. Romance _is_ fighting.

      DAN’L. Then I’ve had quite enough romance to please me.

      COLOMBINE. All properly constituted love affairs should include
    a fight. Love without fighting is insipid.

      DAN’L. _You_ don’t have to do the fighting. Which of ’em loves
    you the most?

      COLOMBINE. Why, Pierrot, of course.

      DAN’L. Then why don’t you marry him?

      COLOMBINE. And disappoint Harlequin? I couldn’t do that.

      DAN’L. When are you going to decide?

      COLOMBINE. I don’t know. [_On her fingers._] This year, next
    year, some time, never. To-night perhaps.

      DAN’L. One day they’ll get tired of fighting. What then?

      COLOMBINE. Never!

      DAN’L. You’re sure of that?

      COLOMBINE. Oh, yes. Quite sure.

      DAN’L. One of them may get killed.

      COLOMBINE. They wouldn’t be so careless.

      DAN’L. What should you do if one of ’em got killed by accident?

      COLOMBINE. I should be very angry. But you’re very horrid to
    suggest such things. Why don’t you go away?

      DAN’L. Good-bye.

      COLOMBINE. No, stay.

      DAN’L. Well, I’m fond of a fight, I must say.

      COLOMBINE. Hush! They are coming. Quick, behind this tree.

      DAN’L. Anywhere in the background’s good enough for me.

      COLOMBINE. A fight, a fight! And all for love of me.

                    [_The orchestra plays quietly the Soldiers’ Chorus
                        and snatches of other martial refrains. The
                        two watchers betray tense excitement._
                        HARLEQUIN _and_ PIERROT _enter arm in arm.
                        Any differences they may have had are evidently
                        settled._ COLOMBINE _looks on in astonishment_.

[Illustration]

      HARLEQUIN. Mind you, as girls go, Colombine’s one of the best.

      PIERROT. Ah yes.

      HARLEQUIN. But nothing to fight about.

      PIERROT. [_Without conviction._] No.

      HARLEQUIN. And fighting’s going out of fashion. There’s no doubt
    about that.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. The whole trend of modern thought is opposed to it.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. None of the best people do it.

      PIERROT. I suppose not.

      HARLEQUIN. And one must be in the movement.

      PIERROT. Of course.

      HARLEQUIN. Arbitration’s the thing nowadays.

      PIERROT. What’s that?

      HARLEQUIN. Why, you each talk until you’re out of breath, and
    the one with most breath wins.

      PIERROT. [_Taking a deep breath._] That seems a good idea.

      HARLEQUIN. It is.

      PIERROT. But what will Colombine say if we don’t fight? She loves
    to watch us fight.

      HARLEQUIN. My dear chap, we must be firm. Adopt your point of
    view, and stick to it in the face of all opposition.

      COLOMBINE. [_Advancing._] Aren’t you going to fight?

      PIERROT. [_Kindly._] Not to-night.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! Why not?

      HARLEQUIN. Well, we’ve got
                 Other fish to fry,
                 That’s why.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! do fight!

      PIERROT. Not to-night.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, my dear girl, do listen to reason. You will admit,
    I suppose, that the most elementary point about a duel is to spit
    your opponent through the gizzard.

      COLOMBINE. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. Well, I haven’t got a gizzard, and what’s the use of
    trying to spit a man’s gizzard, if he hasn’t got a gizzard to spit?
    You must be reasonable.

      COLOMBINE. How do you know you haven’t got a gizzard?

      HARLEQUIN. We don’t know for certain, we assume.

      PIERROT. You’ve only to look at him to see there isn’t room.

      COLOMBINE. But why the gizzard? What does it matter _where_ you
    spit him so long as you do spit him?

      HARLEQUIN. For heaven’s sake, my dear girl, don’t preach such
    revolutionary doctrines. There is a certain etiquette to be
    observed, even in a battle.

      COLOMBINE. [_After a pause._] But it’s quite simple. You spit
    Pierrot. He’s got a gizzard, I suppose.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. Pierrot consulted a phrenologist....

      PIERROT. Soothsayer!

      HARLEQUIN. Sorry--soothsayer, who said he was born to be hung....

      PIERROT. Hanged!

      HARLEQUIN. Hanged, and so of course, he doesn’t want to run the
    risk of disappointing him.

      COLOMBINE. Very considerate, I’m sure.
    I think you’re absolutely _horrid_, there.               [_Cries._

      HARLEQUIN. [_To_ PIERROT.] Don’t waver, both together.

      HARLEQUIN and PIERROT. We don’t care
          Tuppence what you think or say,
          We talked the matter over, here to-day;
          And arbitration is the only way.

      COLOMBINE. You’re frightened.

      HARLEQUIN. Don’t be silly. Frightened! Me!

      COLOMBINE. Well, who’s your arbitrator going to be?

      HARLEQUIN. [_Taken aback._] Why yes, we must have someone, I
        suppose.
    But who’s to do it?

      PIERROT.          Goodness only knows!
    There’s not a single person within call.

    COLOMBINE. [_Clapping her hands._] Hurrah! You’ll have to fight,
      then, after all.

                       [_There is a pause, during which_ PIERROT _and_
                       HARLEQUIN _look at each other in dismay_.
                       COLOMBINE _on the other hand claps her
                       hands and pirouettes round the stage. Then_
                       HARLEQUIN _sees_ DAN’L _and drags him forward
                       at the same time speaking in asides_.

      HARLEQUIN. What’s your name?

      DAN’L. Much the same
            As it’s always bin,
            Week out, week in,
            This seventy year and more.

      HARLEQUIN. Good! We want you to arbitrate.
    You’re the very man.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey. I’ll do it if I can.

      HARLEQUIN. There’s much gold.
               Wealth untold!
               If you only do
               As I tell you to.

      DAN’L. Fire away!

      HARLEQUIN. Until to-day, Pierrot and I have been in the habit of
    engaging in mortal combat for the hand of Colombine. Owing to the
    fact that up to the present neither has had the decency to get
    killed, and as a result of the wave of anti-militarism that has
    swept over the country, we have decided to fall back on arbitration.
    And you are the arbitrator. You understand?

      DAN’L. No!

      HARLEQUIN. Then you’re very thick.

      DAN’L. You speaks too quick
    And the way you keeps hopping about makes me fair mazed.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. One of us is to marry
    Colombine, and you’ve to decide which it’s to be.
    Do you see?

      DAN’L. No.

      HARLEQUIN. But it’s quite simple.

      DAN’L. Maybe. But how do I know which it’s to be?

      HARLEQUIN. I’ll let you into a secret. It’s me!

      DAN’L. Oh! And if I goes and sez ’tis you,
    What’s yon chap in the white trousers going to do?

      HARLEQUIN. Never mind him. He’s a fool.

      DAN’L. It seems it don’t much matter what I say;
    I’m bound to upset one of ye either way.
    Oh! very well.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Pierrot! Gather round.

                        [_They sit in a semicircle_; COLOMBINE _and_
                          DAN’L _in the centre_.

      DAN’L. I shall catch my death of cold, sitting on this damp
    ground.

                        [_There is silence, each waiting for the other
                          to speak._

      COLOMBINE. You don’t seem very anxious, either of you.

      DAN’L. Who goes first?

      HARLEQUIN. If I don’t say something, and quickly, I shall burst.

      DAN’L. Then you’d best get started. [_Aside._] How long will it take?

      HARLEQUIN. Until it’s ended.

      DAN’L. Cut it short for goodness’ sake.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Let me take you away from these lonely hills.
    Into the heart of the world where lies the Land of Yesterday. There
    are stored all the happy hours that you have known. You shall live
    them all over again, Colombine--every one. I will lead you by secret
    paths, through the dim woods of yesternight until we stand together
    in the sunlight of the days that have been. Walking backward through
    the years, we will collect those dear lost delights, of which only
    the memory remains. From all that has gone before, it shall be yours
    to pick and choose, and no To-morrow shall throw its ominous shade
    before. The past shall deliver up its treasures to your hand; regrets
    shall be ended, and happiness shall be sure. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. No, Harlequin. The road to your Land of Yesterday is
    longer than you know, and there is no going back. Let us still take
    from the past our memories and our dreams, but do not ask for more,
    lest even these be denied.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: THE GATEWAY OF HAPPINESS]

      HARLEQUIN. As you will. Then it is to the future that we must
    turn. Colombine, far from here, set in a desert of hot sand, is a
    crystal, so large, that all the giants of Africa could not stir
    it the thickness of a hair. Peering into its depths, you may read
    your future to the end of time. A day, a week, a year, shall be no
    barrier to the vision of the mind. You may read all the riddles of
    the universe, and there will remain nothing that you do not know. You
    shall see your face as it will be when twice twenty harvest moons
    have waned, and fifty summer suns have set. And I, alone, can point
    you the way. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. You promise much, Harlequin. It may well be that in some
    spot remote from the haunts of men, the Mirror of Fate yet lies hid.
    And you may find it. Who knows! But this, at least, is certain; the
    path will be difficult and the journey long. Would you not tire by
    the way, Harlequin? I think you would. [_Pause._] And, it is not in
    distant deserts I would seek. In the woods of home, hearts may thrill
    to the eloquent silences of the night. [HARLEQUIN _rises_.] All the
    secrets of the world might be ours, did we but care to learn the
    simple language of the nightingale. Across the moonlight, the shadows
    of the branches trace unforgettable things. Great secrets tremble on
    the lips of the leaves, and mortals grope vainly in the daylight for
    things seen most plainly in the dark.

      DAN’L. [_Coughing to draw attention to himself._]
    I’ve allus noticed, in whatever parts I med ha’ bin,
    A maid in love have allus got a fairish yarn to spin.
    And in whatever parts I’ve bin, I’ve allus noticed too,
    The foolish lads do take it all for gospel, that um do.
    But though I’ve kept good notice in whatever parts I was,
    I’ve never heard a maid to spin a yarn like this un does.
    Ur be a marvel, that ur be; I hope as ur won’t try
    When ur’s tired of you two fellows here, to spin no yarns to I;
    For fools be mostly biggest fools when um be old and grey.
    And if I went along o’ she, what _ud_ my missus say.
    Next man?

      COLOMBINE. Come, Pierrot!

      PIERROT. [_With an effort._] Colombine!

      COLOMBINE. Yes, Pierrot.

      HARLEQUIN. Go on!

      DAN’L. Let’s hear what you’ve got to say, young fellow.

      PIERROT. There is nothing to say.

      COLOMBINE. Nothing to say!

      PIERROT. Save that I love you, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. And is that so small a thing, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. But I have nothing to offer you, nothing.

      COLOMBINE. [_Softly._] Save yourself.

      HARLEQUIN. I have always said that Pierrot was master of sounding
    silences. The sweetest singer of unsung songs, his eloquent nothings
    go shrieking through the void. He scorns to desecrate the virgin
    purity of his foolscap with the written word. What love is that which
    dare not tell its love? Come, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. See, Harlequin, here is a beech nut. You shake it, yet
    there is no sound. Is it full? Is it empty?

      HARLEQUIN. Who can say?

      DAN’L. Likewise, young Nathan’l he picks up a match-box last week,
    and throws it away because there was no sound when he rattles en
    [_To_ HARLEQUIN.] And what do you think?

      HARLEQUIN. I couldn’t say.

      DAN’L. It was so full all the time as not to rattle at all.

      HARLEQUIN. [_Scornfully._] Matches! ye gods! Let’s talk of cucumbers,
    Or shame the glory of this summer night
    With tales of warming-pans.
    Has no one here a button-hook,
    With which to probe the vast unsounded deeps
    [_To_ DAN’L.] Of thy poor addled brain.
    It yet may be,
    In some uncharted corner of the void
    That passes for thy mind,
    We find a collar-stud.
    Farewell!                                                 [_Exit._

      DAN’L. Well, he won’t come back again, that I will be bound,
    And as I be catching my death of cold, sitting on this damp ground,
    I’d best be moving. [_Rises._] Ugh! Good-night to ee.

      PIERROT. Good-night!

      COLOMBINE. [_Aside to_ DAN’L.] And, Mr. Arbitrator, if you see
    Your friend Nathan’l, say that Pierrot
    Owes more to him than he will ever know. [_Exit_ DAN’L.

      COLOMBINE. They have gone!

      PIERROT. Ah!

      COLOMBINE. And the night draws on.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      COLOMBINE. You are sad. Why are you sad, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. I cannot tell.

      COLOMBINE. And you are cold. Is it the night air?

      PIERROT. The wind-swept wold
    Is a street of gold,
    So my lady be walking there.

      COLOMBINE. Yet you are sad. See, they have gone and will not
    come again.

      PIERROT. So love may vanish too,
    And of his chain no link remain
    To tell the way he flew.

      COLOMBINE. Love, as the skylark, soars into that Heaven where’t
    fain would be.

      PIERROT. And singing still, returns. Time was when you, with
    Harlequin, would revel till the cold grey dawn came in.

      COLOMBINE. Light loves sometime were pleasant, but to-night the
    face of love seems changed. No more will stray this wandering heart
    of mine.

      PIERROT. Are you not sorry, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. Sorry for what, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. For loss of Harlequin.

      COLOMBINE. Harlequin is very clever but he talks of what he does
    not know, and promises what is not his to give. Cleverness is not
    everything, Pierrot. The mind is like a garden full of flowers, but
        The heart is a little house,
        With windows facing southerly;
        By which a pathway winds.
        And there, behind the blinds,
        We sit and wait,
        Watching, waiting for what?
        We know not.

    The garden is a pleasant place in summer, but when it is winter, we
    seek the fireside of the little house.

      PIERROT. Yet you are fond of gardens and pretty flowers, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. What flowers grow
          In your garden, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. My garden is full of the flowers,
          My mother planted for me;
          Curious, old-world flowers,
          Thyme, lavender, rosemary.
          Planted in days gone by.
          And, though no gardener I,
          As the shadows fall, I tend them all;
          Watering, pruning there.
          Am I happy in my lot?
          I know not.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. And there is the little house, Pierrot.

      PIERROT. Ah, yes there is the little house.
          Do you remember when
          You peeped through the pane, and then
          Went on your way again?
          Out of my sight, although,
          I beckoned you as you passed,
          And sat at my window mournfully.
          But you came again at last.
          And, seeing you come, I said;
          “The flowers in my garden are dead,
          So will she have no more of me.”

    COLOMBINE. I am knocking at the door, Pierrot.
          Knocking and waiting there,
          For the sound of a step on the stair.
          Will you open to me, Pierrot?

                                [PIERROT’S _answer may be taken in the
                                  affirmative. As they sit together, it
                                  grows dark._

[Illustration]

      PIERROT. [_Rising._] Come dear, and let us go,
    Together, hand in hand,
    Into that sun-lit land,
    Where life and love are things inseparable.
    Where, beneath cloudless skies,
    The happy are the wise,
    And none reprove the glory of a love they may not understand.

                                                     [_Exit together._
                          [_It becomes quite dark_: DAN’L _and an_ OLD
                            MAN _pass slowly across the stage, carrying
                            lanterns, and peering cautiously into the
                            blackness of the night_.

      THE OLD MAN. You was dreaming, Dan’l. That’s about the size of it.

      DAN’L. And I tells ee I wur as wide awake as you be. Us had been
    sitting over-long by the clump, and all of a sudden I looks up and
    sees a fairy. “Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l,” I sez, “be I dreaming or
    be I cracked?”

                              [_They pass off, and the curtain falls._


                                FINIS

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                             OTHER VERSES




                            THE MARIONETTE


        Man is merely a marionette
          On invisible wires suspended.
        And it’s just as well he shouldn’t forget
            That Fate the showman is in the wings,
            Working the business and pulling the strings
        Till his turn is over and ended.

        Man is merely a figure on strings,
          By the glare of the footlights blinded.
        And the wonderful way he dances and sings
            Is not unlikely to fill his mind
            With a great contempt for the Power behind,
        Till suddenly he’s reminded.

        Man is the cream of an idle jest,
          A smile on the face of sorrow.
        A sad peculiar figure at best;
            Willing to sacrifice every day,
            Breaking his heart in the hope of play
        On a problematical morrow.




                          A LETTER FROM HOME


        I’ve a letter from home to-day;
        A letter from home to say
        That they’re cutting the trees in the Priory Wood,
        That lambing is over and crops are good.
        Quite the usual thing, be it understood,
        Is my letter from home, to-day.

        I’ve a letter from home, to-day;
        A letter from far away,
        Bidding me ever to bear in mind
        The dear old friends I have left behind.
        But I’m not of the quickly forgetting kind,
        Dear letter from home, to-day!

        In my letter from home, to-day;
        Is a postscript, just to say
        “No doubt you’ll be very much grieved to hear
        That the girl who stayed at the Grange last year,
        Is dead, and was yesterday buried here.”
        And the world has ended, to-day.




                           THE EXPLANATION


                How do I know I love you?
                Why, because
                When you’re away, d’ye see,
                I kind o’ wanders lonesome like
                An’ frets,
                ’Cause you’re not there with me.
                An’ when I meet you by the stile
                At night,
                And not a soul to see,
                I scarce durst speak to you because
                You’re you, an’ I’m just me.




                              MEMORANDA


                In your Book of Memory,
                Set aside no page for me.
                Do not write our friendship there,
                But, if you’ve the time to spare,
                Scribble just this hurried line:
                “He was once a friend of mine.”

                Blot it very carefully,
                Turn the page that none may see.
                Life goes singing down the way
                Different ballads every day.
                Other pages open fair,
                Set new tales of friendship there.

                And the day will come maybe,
                When that hurried line of me;
                Seen by chance a moment’s space,
                Will recall a vanished face,
                And a memory sweeter than
                Many written pages can.




                      LOVE, LAUGHTER, AND AFTER


            The ruinous cottage, the broken latch;
            The cold stone floor and the dripping thatch.
            The ripe red lips of the girl who stands
            Holding her lover’s hands.

            The gay Casino, the fancy ball;
            The twinkling lights of the crowded hall.
            The cool sweet air of the terrace dim,
            Love and laughter and--him.

            The pitiful pageant that follows soon;
            The music hall and the cheap saloon.
            The sad procession, the coffee stall.
            The river that ends it all.




                             TH’ COORTIN’


                ’Tis just about a wik ago,
                  Or mebbe two, or theresabout,
                As I axed Kate why ur an’ Joe
                  Was seed together waalking out;
                Whenas, fur nigh upon a year,
                ’Twur I as had been coortin’ ur.

                “Why, laws-a-mussey, Bill,” ur sez,
                  “Fur certain sure ye must allow
                Us two caan’t alluz spend our days
                  The same as us be doin’ now.
                Ye’d better wed wi’ one ye doan’t
                Than waalk wi’ one ye do, as woan’t.”

                I cudden zackly understand
                  What ’twur as she was drivin’ at,
                Until I cotched ur by the hand
                  And took a peep ’erneath ur hat.
                Wur what I see surprised I so,
                  I gi’ed ur kiss, an’ whispered low:
                “Ye’d better wed the feller who
                Has alluz bin in luv wi’ you.”
                And that’s just what ur means to do.




                              AGREEMENT

                    Oyez! Oyez! Behold we state
                    The rules of this our Syndicate.


              Let it be granted first of all,
              That you are not so young and small
              As foolish people would suppose,
              From your long hair and shorter clothes.

              Item the second, please agree
              To just the opposite in me.
              For would the wisest man alive
              Imagine I was twenty-five?

              This done, folk cannot make a fuss,
              Or say that we’re preposterous.
              For you become, as all may see,
              A chaperone in charge of me.

              Thirdly, this reservation’s made,
              The Syndicate’s too old and staid
              To ride (though you’ll object no doubt)
              In swinging boat and roundabout.

              Fourthly, the world’s a dear old place,
              So always keep a smiling face.
              It suits you best, and as to that,
              So does pink chiffon in your hat.

              Lastly, lest envious folk combine
              To wreck your Syndicate, and mine,
              My autograph is here affixed,
              Written in blood and water mixed.

       _P.S._ It may not look like blood to you
              But recollect my blood is blue.




                             THE BURYIN’


                The mists be on the river bed,
                The roses all be gone;
                And here be I, about to die,
                Wi’ harvest coming on.
                Dear Lord, I’ve trapsed some weary miles,
                I’ll be main glad to rest awhiles.

                The folk’ll soon be in the fields,
                A-getting in the grain.
                For most of those, the time I’ve chose
                Be awkerd in the main.
                Though not so bad, ’tis sure, for they
                As be a-working by the day.

                September be a better month
                For all the carter men;
                And when I die don’t signify,
                So let I bide till then.
                The wagons’ll be standing by,
                And there’ll be time to bury I.




                          A ZONG TO ZING-OH!


            When the zun beyond the Beacon be a-zettin’
            And everything’s as quiet as can be,
            By the gate to varmur’s meddy,
            That old gate zo vurm and zteddy,
            You be pretty zure uv vindin’ Jim and me.

            When the mists along the valley be uprisin’
            And the nightingale’s a-zingin’ in the tree;
            When the peewits be a-zquawkin’
            Uz don’t waste no time a-talkin’
            Time’s a vasty zight too short sez Jim an’ me

            With the honeyzuckle zcent zo thick as treacle,
            And the chestnut blossoms droppin’ onto we;
            As us zets zo close together,
            Why zometimes I wonders whether
            Jim ull zet that close in Paradise to me.

            When the clocks down in the village be a-strikin’
            And darkness comes a-creepin’ up the lea,
            Then, though us be zeldom ready,
            Us must leave old varmur’s meddy,
            Or the volk ull all be wonderin’ where us be.




                                 SONG


            Long ago,
            (How long ago I really don’t know;)
            A kingfisher lived in a valley of green,
            The finest kingfisher that ever was seen--
            In that little green valley I know.

            Silent and slow
            All in a row, buttercups grow.
            One day the kingfisher selected his queen,
            And the bride wore a costume of purple and green
            ’Neath the willows that stand in a row.

            Heigho!
            (As the years go, still the streams flow)
            The whole of this summer they haven’t been seen,
            And a wood-pecker reigns in that valley serene.
            Where they’ve gone to I really don’t know.




                              PHILOSOPHY


                When I was young, in days gone by,
                I smoked Wild Woodbines on the sly.
                They made me ill, but what of that?
                ’Twas nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                If I had shirked that pallid brow
                I couldn’t smoke Havanas now.

                The only girl I ever kissed,
                Both found and left an optimist.
                She jilted me, but even that
                Was nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                I’ve such a cozy little den,
                And know a lot of married men.

                And now, although I’m getting stout,
                And though my hair is falling out,
                And people call me old and fat,
                There’s nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                Although I am a perfect fright,
                I don’t look bad by candle light.




                               FORFEITS


                You fail to catch the trencher spun
                And, later, when the game is done,
                The lady who collects the fees
                Demands a forfeit, if you please.
                You find a penny, grimed and black,
                And hope that you may get it back.

                You sit in speechless misery,
                And wonder what your fate will be,
                Until, within that giggling ring,
                You have to claim the wretched thing;
                Then sally forth upon your quest,
                To kiss the one you love the best.

                You don’t appreciate the fun,
                But curb a wild desire to run;
                Then seek a matron staid and stout,
                And drag the willing victim out;
                Because, of course, it wouldn’t do
                To kiss the girl you wanted to.




                             THE REVIVAL


            Take me away, for I will see no more;
            It was but yesterday I saw the play before,
            The day on which my dear and I were wed--
            Your mother, child--your mother who is dead.
            Why did you bring me here to see a play
            Which she and I saw only yesterday?




                         A PATRON OF THE ARTS


                    I knew a lady once I did,
                    Who lived away at Pontypridd;
                    She liked my verses very much,
                    And said I had the lyric touch.

                    She used to ask me round to lunch,
                    And say I ought to edit “Punch,”
                    As Owen S. and Francis B.,
                    Were amateurs compared to me.

                    Last week I met her in a batch
                    Of lunatics at Colney Hatch,
                    And heard she always spoke of me
                    As far surpassing Calverley.




                              CRITICISM


                A simple poet on a time,
                Resolved to write a simple rhyme.
                His verse was pleasing to the ear;
                He also made his meaning clear.

                The critics glanced at it, and said
                Such rubbish they had never read.
                A point on which they did agree,
                With touching unanimity.

                The simple poet took his lay,
                And turned it round the other way.
                Shuffled the sentences about,
                And took a dozen commas out.

                The critics took the volume, and
                Read, marked--and failed to understand.
                Then fell upon their stomachs flat,
                This prodigy to marvel at.




                           TREASON AND PLOT


                When I am very, very rich,
                  And very famous, too,
                I’ll take a cab to Regent’s Park,
                  And walk into the Zoo
                With quite a consequential air,
                For I shall be the richest there.

                And in a lordly way I’ll take
                  A shilling from my purse,
                And buy the biggest rattle-snake
                  To carry home to Nurse,
                And, as she’s very short of breath,
                Perhaps ’twill frighten her to death.




                        THE POPPY AND THE POET


                Like poppies in the golden corn,
                  The poet’s race is run;
                Each strives alike to gain the ear;
                  The poppy from the sun
                Borrows more radiance than gold--
                A poet’s much the same, I’m told.

                But still these differences appear
                  When everything is said;
                The poet’s leaves, I greatly fear,
                  Are very seldom read.
                Poppies but borrow from the sun--
                A poet will from anyone.




                              EL DORADO


                He sought it through the golden isles
                Of Once Upon a Time.
                In fabled fields of Might Have Been
                He heard its distant chime.
                He saw, mid Dreamland’s mystic glades,
                Its turrets from afar;
                And found it in the valley, where
                The deepest shadows are.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


The Project Gutenberg eBook of Colombine a fantasy
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Colombine a fantasy
        and other verses

Author: Reginald Arkell

Illustrator: Frederick Carter

Release date: June 19, 2025 [eBook #76341]

Language: English

Original publication: London: Benn and Cronin, Ltd, 1911

Credits: Carol Brown, Charlene Taylor and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***

Transcriber’s Note:

Words and phrases in italics are surrounded by underscores, _like
this_.

“ro” was changed to “to” ... desire to run ...




  COLOMBINE

  A FANTASY

  AND OTHER VERSES




  _LONDON_
  BENN AND CRONIN, LTD.
  CRAVEN HOUSE, KINGSWAY, W.C.
  1911




       _Copyright: Entered at Stationers’ Hall, December 1911.
                  Acting Rights strictly Reserved._




[Illustration: COLOMBINE.]




[Illustration:

  COLOMBINE
  A FANTASY

  BY REGINALD ARKELL

  WITH SOME DRAWINGS
  BY FREDERICK CARTER.]




[Illustration]




                            AUTHOR’S NOTE

“COLOMBINE” was first performed at Clavier Hall, Hanover Square, W.,
on Thursday, 7th December 1911, with the following cast:

    Dan’l (an old man)         MR. B. BUTLER.
    Nathan’l (a boy)           MR. A. E. FILMER.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Harlequin                  MR. REGINALD BACH.
    Pierrot                    MR. MARK HANNAM.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Colombine                  MISS ETHEL EVANS.

    The play was produced by MR. A. E. FILMER.


                                SCENE

  A ROMAN CAMP on the summit of Cissbury Beacon in the South Downs.
     A fairy ring occupies the foreground. All round are beech trees.
     The time is evening.




[Illustration]




                               PROLOGUE


    There are circles of green upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the Pharisees dance--so they say;
    Revelling merrily round it until
    The dawn over Ditchling is gray.
    And travellers lost upon Cissbury Hill--
    (Pixy-led folk who stray)
    Seated on toad-stools, with fairy folk sup,
    _But here, in Haymarket, the roadway is up_.

    There are circles of beech upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the leaves of a lifetime decay;
    Hiding the memories, lingering still,
    Of Rome’s indisputable sway.
    And under the beech-leaves of Cissbury Hill,
    Throbs the heart of the downland alway.
    While dreaming of chieftains and warriors in woad,
    _You’re lighting your pipe in the Charing Cross Road_.




[Illustration]




                              COLOMBINE


     _An old man and a boy are seen talking; both are labourers.
                 The old man, who is seated, speaks_:

      DAN’L. Well, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. There’s little use in stopping here much longer.

      NATHAN’L. Not as I can see.

      DAN’L. Like my old eyes, the sun don’t grow no stronger.

      NATHAN’L. And I wants my tea.

      DAN’L. Do ee, lad?

      NATHAN’L. Ah, main bad.

      DAN’L. Which means ’tis time to go, I reckons.

      NATHAN’L. That’s a proposition as I seconds.

      DAN’L. Come on then, let’s be moving. Tip us yer daddle.

      NATHAN’L. All of a sudden you be in a mortal caddle.
    I wants to hear the finish of that yarn
    As you was spinning down at Tranter’s Barn.
    A peck of troubles it was all about.
    I wants to know how everything turned out.

      DAN’L. You wants your tea, that’s what you wants, my son.

      NATHAN’L. There’s time enough for tea when you be done.

      DAN’L. Well, though ’tis little enough I read,
    I sid in a story-book years ago,
    (Though mind, Nathan’l, there beant no need
    To be letting on as I told ee so)
    That all the troubles as worrits a man
    Was locked in a box when the world began.

    And there no doubt they’d ha’ bid till now,
    If the dummel soul as had got the key,
    Hadn’t got mixed up with a maid somehow
    And gone and handed it over to she.
    And what do ee fancy the maiden did?
    Darn me, Nathan’l, ur lifted the lid.

[Illustration]

    And all they troubles come trooping out,
    Like hens from a chicken-run might have done.
    For the maiden fancied without a doubt,
    They’d go back in the evening like, one by one.
    But time’s got to settle a few more clocks,
    Afore they troubles goes back to their box.

    Straight, Nathan’l, ’tis near enough
    To make a methody parson swear.
    And every time as I reads such stuff,
    I goes so red as yon moon up there.
    To think of the trouble ur brought on we--
    I reckon I owes my old gal to she.

      NATHAN’L. Is it true, do ee think, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, mebbe not, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee think, Dan’l--she let out the lot?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe not.

      NATHAN’L. Sounds like a fairy story to me.

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe, mebbe.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee believe in fairies, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Can’t be sure as I do, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, I don’t anyway, and that’s a fact.

                          _Enter_ COLOMBINE.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l, be I dreaming or be I cracked?

      NATHAN’L. My goodness, Dan’l, I do believe as she’s a fairy....

      DAN’L. Here, come into the shadow of these trees,
    And give that clacking tongue of yourn a rest.

      NATHAN’L. Oh, this be more wonderful than all the things I ever
          guessed.

      DAN’L. And it means _summat_ that you _may_ depend.

      NATHAN’L. See, where she walks, the grass don’t even bend
    Beneath her feet. She be a fairy, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. I wish you’d hold your clacking tongue, Nathan’l.

                      [COLOMBINE, _hearing a noise, pauses to listen_.

      COLOMBINE. Who’s there? The daylight fades. I cannot see.

      DAN’L. You go.

      NATHAN’L.     No, you.

      DAN’L.                So please you, Miss, ’tis we.

      COLOMBINE. Good evening, Sirs.

      DAN’L.                Our best respects to ee.
    A goodish evening to be sure, but getting dark and cold.
    Time gals like you was safe abed, if I might make so bold.

      COLOMBINE. Old man, the night has but begun.

      DAN’L. The day be done.

      COLOMBINE. The moon has scarcely risen yet.

      DAN’L. The sun have set.

      COLOMBINE. The sun his wandering footsteps stays to greet the crescent moon.
    The nightjar and the nightingale will both be singing soon.

      DAN’L. Us don’t set much store by nightingales in these parts,
            and as for nightjars! Oh lor, us shoots they.
          Give I a linnet now,
          A-sitting on a bough;
          As sings his message to the sun,
          And goes to sleep when day be done,
          Respectable like!

      NATHAN’L. [_Coming forward._]
          Queer things,
          These here rings
          You sees in the grass
          When you pass.
          They say ’tis where Pharisees dances at night!
          Be that right?

      COLOMBINE. Quite right; yet once the circle that you see,
    Saw war and tumult.

      DAN’L.           Lawks-a-mussey me!

      COLOMBINE. The Roman legions camped on yonder brow,
    And built the road you stand on.

      NATHAN’L.                     Did they now!

      COLOMBINE. The sun would sink out yonder in the west,
    And shine upon their helmets.

      DAN’L.                      Well I’m blest!

      COLOMBINE. The very spot where Julius Caesar sat,
    Lies just behind those beeches.

      NATHAN’L.                    Think of that!

      COLOMBINE. In yonder barrow treasures rare lie hid.
    Dig deep to find them.

      DAN’L.               Well I never did!

      NATHAN’L. But when did all this
                Happen, Miss?
                How many years ago,
                I’d like to know?

      COLOMBINE. Roughly two thousand, on this very spot.

      DAN’L. Lor! What a memory you must have got.

      COLOMBINE. [_To_ NATHAN’L.] But tell me please;
    Beneath these trees,
    What travellers come, and whither bound?
    Do still these ancient heights resound
    With martial music and the tramp of men?

      NATHAN’L. Us gets a hurdy-gurdy now and then,
    And once a clown on stilts went through the wood;
    And oh! he could catch pennies, that he could.

      COLOMBINE. But in what fashion do you pass your days?

      NATHAN’L. I kill the time in various sorts of ways.
    Scaring the rooks as settles on the corn;
    Helping the shepherd when the lambs be born.
    Talking to Dan’l about these here rings,
    And wondering about a power of things.
    As don’t concern nobody, I suppose.
    But then, you must do summat, goodness knows.

      COLOMBINE. Of course. ’Tis lonely here without a doubt.
    What are the things you’re wondering about
    To-day?

[Illustration]

      NATHAN’L. Such things as surely never was.
    Such things as surely no one ever does.
    And yet, of nothing, for they moves so fast,
    You finds as you’ve forgotten them at last.
    Just like a dream they passes and be gone.
    Just like a dream they passes....

      COLOMBINE.                      Yes, go on.

      NATHAN’L. Just like a dream, for though I thinks a lot,
    Before they’re rightly thought they’re clean forgot.
    Though somehow, now I sits and talks to you,
    I keeps remembering things I never knew.
    Just like as though somebody slammed a door,
    When you was going where you’d been before;
    Leaving you standing on the further side,
    Wondering at what was happening inside.
    Whether the folk you knew was there or not;
    Whether you really knew, and had forgot;
    Whether you’d been there once when you was small,
    Or whether you was never there at all.
    ’Tis plaguey awkerd, wondering, that it be.
    And now I must be off, I wants my tea.                    [_Exit._

      COLOMBINE. Good-bye. And think sometimes of me.

                           [_Rousing herself from the brown study into
                             which this revelation has thrown her, and
                             addressing_ DAN’L.

    Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. [_Startled._] Eh?

      COLOMBINE. Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. It all depends. Why?

      COLOMBINE. There’s going to be a fight.

      DAN’L. When? Where?

      COLOMBINE. Very soon.
             By the light of the moon.
             On the very stroke of nine.
             All for love of Colombine.

      DAN’L. Shall I fetch a policeman?

      COLOMBINE. A policeman! Dear me, no.

      DAN’L. Who’s going to fight.

      COLOMBINE. Don’t you know?
                             Harlequin and Pierrot.

      DAN’L. Never heard of they.

      COLOMBINE. Won’t it be fun?

      DAN’L. Good fun
                      For the one as gets killed.

      COLOMBINE. But they won’t kill each other. They never do. They’re
    _most_ dependable.

      DAN’L. Have um fought before?

      COLOMBINE. Of course. Hundreds of times.

      DAN’L. Silly young chaps.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. They’re not silly. They’re fighting for me. Don’t you
    understand?

      DAN’L. I fought about a girl once. But only once. It was a long
    time ago.

      COLOMBINE. You’re not romantic. Romance would die if it wasn’t
    for fighting. Romance _is_ fighting.

      DAN’L. Then I’ve had quite enough romance to please me.

      COLOMBINE. All properly constituted love affairs should include
    a fight. Love without fighting is insipid.

      DAN’L. _You_ don’t have to do the fighting. Which of ’em loves
    you the most?

      COLOMBINE. Why, Pierrot, of course.

      DAN’L. Then why don’t you marry him?

      COLOMBINE. And disappoint Harlequin? I couldn’t do that.

      DAN’L. When are you going to decide?

      COLOMBINE. I don’t know. [_On her fingers._] This year, next
    year, some time, never. To-night perhaps.

      DAN’L. One day they’ll get tired of fighting. What then?

      COLOMBINE. Never!

      DAN’L. You’re sure of that?

      COLOMBINE. Oh, yes. Quite sure.

      DAN’L. One of them may get killed.

      COLOMBINE. They wouldn’t be so careless.

      DAN’L. What should you do if one of ’em got killed by accident?

      COLOMBINE. I should be very angry. But you’re very horrid to
    suggest such things. Why don’t you go away?

      DAN’L. Good-bye.

      COLOMBINE. No, stay.

      DAN’L. Well, I’m fond of a fight, I must say.

      COLOMBINE. Hush! They are coming. Quick, behind this tree.

      DAN’L. Anywhere in the background’s good enough for me.

      COLOMBINE. A fight, a fight! And all for love of me.

                    [_The orchestra plays quietly the Soldiers’ Chorus
                        and snatches of other martial refrains. The
                        two watchers betray tense excitement._
                        HARLEQUIN _and_ PIERROT _enter arm in arm.
                        Any differences they may have had are evidently
                        settled._ COLOMBINE _looks on in astonishment_.

[Illustration]

      HARLEQUIN. Mind you, as girls go, Colombine’s one of the best.

      PIERROT. Ah yes.

      HARLEQUIN. But nothing to fight about.

      PIERROT. [_Without conviction._] No.

      HARLEQUIN. And fighting’s going out of fashion. There’s no doubt
    about that.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. The whole trend of modern thought is opposed to it.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. None of the best people do it.

      PIERROT. I suppose not.

      HARLEQUIN. And one must be in the movement.

      PIERROT. Of course.

      HARLEQUIN. Arbitration’s the thing nowadays.

      PIERROT. What’s that?

      HARLEQUIN. Why, you each talk until you’re out of breath, and
    the one with most breath wins.

      PIERROT. [_Taking a deep breath._] That seems a good idea.

      HARLEQUIN. It is.

      PIERROT. But what will Colombine say if we don’t fight? She loves
    to watch us fight.

      HARLEQUIN. My dear chap, we must be firm. Adopt your point of
    view, and stick to it in the face of all opposition.

      COLOMBINE. [_Advancing._] Aren’t you going to fight?

      PIERROT. [_Kindly._] Not to-night.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! Why not?

      HARLEQUIN. Well, we’ve got
                 Other fish to fry,
                 That’s why.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! do fight!

      PIERROT. Not to-night.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, my dear girl, do listen to reason. You will admit,
    I suppose, that the most elementary point about a duel is to spit
    your opponent through the gizzard.

      COLOMBINE. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. Well, I haven’t got a gizzard, and what’s the use of
    trying to spit a man’s gizzard, if he hasn’t got a gizzard to spit?
    You must be reasonable.

      COLOMBINE. How do you know you haven’t got a gizzard?

      HARLEQUIN. We don’t know for certain, we assume.

      PIERROT. You’ve only to look at him to see there isn’t room.

      COLOMBINE. But why the gizzard? What does it matter _where_ you
    spit him so long as you do spit him?

      HARLEQUIN. For heaven’s sake, my dear girl, don’t preach such
    revolutionary doctrines. There is a certain etiquette to be
    observed, even in a battle.

      COLOMBINE. [_After a pause._] But it’s quite simple. You spit
    Pierrot. He’s got a gizzard, I suppose.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. Pierrot consulted a phrenologist....

      PIERROT. Soothsayer!

      HARLEQUIN. Sorry--soothsayer, who said he was born to be hung....

      PIERROT. Hanged!

      HARLEQUIN. Hanged, and so of course, he doesn’t want to run the
    risk of disappointing him.

      COLOMBINE. Very considerate, I’m sure.
    I think you’re absolutely _horrid_, there.               [_Cries._

      HARLEQUIN. [_To_ PIERROT.] Don’t waver, both together.

      HARLEQUIN and PIERROT. We don’t care
          Tuppence what you think or say,
          We talked the matter over, here to-day;
          And arbitration is the only way.

      COLOMBINE. You’re frightened.

      HARLEQUIN. Don’t be silly. Frightened! Me!

      COLOMBINE. Well, who’s your arbitrator going to be?

      HARLEQUIN. [_Taken aback._] Why yes, we must have someone, I
        suppose.
    But who’s to do it?

      PIERROT.          Goodness only knows!
    There’s not a single person within call.

    COLOMBINE. [_Clapping her hands._] Hurrah! You’ll have to fight,
      then, after all.

                       [_There is a pause, during which_ PIERROT _and_
                       HARLEQUIN _look at each other in dismay_.
                       COLOMBINE _on the other hand claps her
                       hands and pirouettes round the stage. Then_
                       HARLEQUIN _sees_ DAN’L _and drags him forward
                       at the same time speaking in asides_.

      HARLEQUIN. What’s your name?

      DAN’L. Much the same
            As it’s always bin,
            Week out, week in,
            This seventy year and more.

      HARLEQUIN. Good! We want you to arbitrate.
    You’re the very man.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey. I’ll do it if I can.

      HARLEQUIN. There’s much gold.
               Wealth untold!
               If you only do
               As I tell you to.

      DAN’L. Fire away!

      HARLEQUIN. Until to-day, Pierrot and I have been in the habit of
    engaging in mortal combat for the hand of Colombine. Owing to the
    fact that up to the present neither has had the decency to get
    killed, and as a result of the wave of anti-militarism that has
    swept over the country, we have decided to fall back on arbitration.
    And you are the arbitrator. You understand?

      DAN’L. No!

      HARLEQUIN. Then you’re very thick.

      DAN’L. You speaks too quick
    And the way you keeps hopping about makes me fair mazed.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. One of us is to marry
    Colombine, and you’ve to decide which it’s to be.
    Do you see?

      DAN’L. No.

      HARLEQUIN. But it’s quite simple.

      DAN’L. Maybe. But how do I know which it’s to be?

      HARLEQUIN. I’ll let you into a secret. It’s me!

      DAN’L. Oh! And if I goes and sez ’tis you,
    What’s yon chap in the white trousers going to do?

      HARLEQUIN. Never mind him. He’s a fool.

      DAN’L. It seems it don’t much matter what I say;
    I’m bound to upset one of ye either way.
    Oh! very well.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Pierrot! Gather round.

                        [_They sit in a semicircle_; COLOMBINE _and_
                          DAN’L _in the centre_.

      DAN’L. I shall catch my death of cold, sitting on this damp
    ground.

                        [_There is silence, each waiting for the other
                          to speak._

      COLOMBINE. You don’t seem very anxious, either of you.

      DAN’L. Who goes first?

      HARLEQUIN. If I don’t say something, and quickly, I shall burst.

      DAN’L. Then you’d best get started. [_Aside._] How long will it take?

      HARLEQUIN. Until it’s ended.

      DAN’L. Cut it short for goodness’ sake.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Let me take you away from these lonely hills.
    Into the heart of the world where lies the Land of Yesterday. There
    are stored all the happy hours that you have known. You shall live
    them all over again, Colombine--every one. I will lead you by secret
    paths, through the dim woods of yesternight until we stand together
    in the sunlight of the days that have been. Walking backward through
    the years, we will collect those dear lost delights, of which only
    the memory remains. From all that has gone before, it shall be yours
    to pick and choose, and no To-morrow shall throw its ominous shade
    before. The past shall deliver up its treasures to your hand; regrets
    shall be ended, and happiness shall be sure. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. No, Harlequin. The road to your Land of Yesterday is
    longer than you know, and there is no going back. Let us still take
    from the past our memories and our dreams, but do not ask for more,
    lest even these be denied.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: THE GATEWAY OF HAPPINESS]

      HARLEQUIN. As you will. Then it is to the future that we must
    turn. Colombine, far from here, set in a desert of hot sand, is a
    crystal, so large, that all the giants of Africa could not stir
    it the thickness of a hair. Peering into its depths, you may read
    your future to the end of time. A day, a week, a year, shall be no
    barrier to the vision of the mind. You may read all the riddles of
    the universe, and there will remain nothing that you do not know. You
    shall see your face as it will be when twice twenty harvest moons
    have waned, and fifty summer suns have set. And I, alone, can point
    you the way. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. You promise much, Harlequin. It may well be that in some
    spot remote from the haunts of men, the Mirror of Fate yet lies hid.
    And you may find it. Who knows! But this, at least, is certain; the
    path will be difficult and the journey long. Would you not tire by
    the way, Harlequin? I think you would. [_Pause._] And, it is not in
    distant deserts I would seek. In the woods of home, hearts may thrill
    to the eloquent silences of the night. [HARLEQUIN _rises_.] All the
    secrets of the world might be ours, did we but care to learn the
    simple language of the nightingale. Across the moonlight, the shadows
    of the branches trace unforgettable things. Great secrets tremble on
    the lips of the leaves, and mortals grope vainly in the daylight for
    things seen most plainly in the dark.

      DAN’L. [_Coughing to draw attention to himself._]
    I’ve allus noticed, in whatever parts I med ha’ bin,
    A maid in love have allus got a fairish yarn to spin.
    And in whatever parts I’ve bin, I’ve allus noticed too,
    The foolish lads do take it all for gospel, that um do.
    But though I’ve kept good notice in whatever parts I was,
    I’ve never heard a maid to spin a yarn like this un does.
    Ur be a marvel, that ur be; I hope as ur won’t try
    When ur’s tired of you two fellows here, to spin no yarns to I;
    For fools be mostly biggest fools when um be old and grey.
    And if I went along o’ she, what _ud_ my missus say.
    Next man?

      COLOMBINE. Come, Pierrot!

      PIERROT. [_With an effort._] Colombine!

      COLOMBINE. Yes, Pierrot.

      HARLEQUIN. Go on!

      DAN’L. Let’s hear what you’ve got to say, young fellow.

      PIERROT. There is nothing to say.

      COLOMBINE. Nothing to say!

      PIERROT. Save that I love you, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. And is that so small a thing, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. But I have nothing to offer you, nothing.

      COLOMBINE. [_Softly._] Save yourself.

      HARLEQUIN. I have always said that Pierrot was master of sounding
    silences. The sweetest singer of unsung songs, his eloquent nothings
    go shrieking through the void. He scorns to desecrate the virgin
    purity of his foolscap with the written word. What love is that which
    dare not tell its love? Come, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. See, Harlequin, here is a beech nut. You shake it, yet
    there is no sound. Is it full? Is it empty?

      HARLEQUIN. Who can say?

      DAN’L. Likewise, young Nathan’l he picks up a match-box last week,
    and throws it away because there was no sound when he rattles en
    [_To_ HARLEQUIN.] And what do you think?

      HARLEQUIN. I couldn’t say.

      DAN’L. It was so full all the time as not to rattle at all.

      HARLEQUIN. [_Scornfully._] Matches! ye gods! Let’s talk of cucumbers,
    Or shame the glory of this summer night
    With tales of warming-pans.
    Has no one here a button-hook,
    With which to probe the vast unsounded deeps
    [_To_ DAN’L.] Of thy poor addled brain.
    It yet may be,
    In some uncharted corner of the void
    That passes for thy mind,
    We find a collar-stud.
    Farewell!                                                 [_Exit._

      DAN’L. Well, he won’t come back again, that I will be bound,
    And as I be catching my death of cold, sitting on this damp ground,
    I’d best be moving. [_Rises._] Ugh! Good-night to ee.

      PIERROT. Good-night!

      COLOMBINE. [_Aside to_ DAN’L.] And, Mr. Arbitrator, if you see
    Your friend Nathan’l, say that Pierrot
    Owes more to him than he will ever know. [_Exit_ DAN’L.

      COLOMBINE. They have gone!

      PIERROT. Ah!

      COLOMBINE. And the night draws on.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      COLOMBINE. You are sad. Why are you sad, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. I cannot tell.

      COLOMBINE. And you are cold. Is it the night air?

      PIERROT. The wind-swept wold
    Is a street of gold,
    So my lady be walking there.

      COLOMBINE. Yet you are sad. See, they have gone and will not
    come again.

      PIERROT. So love may vanish too,
    And of his chain no link remain
    To tell the way he flew.

      COLOMBINE. Love, as the skylark, soars into that Heaven where’t
    fain would be.

      PIERROT. And singing still, returns. Time was when you, with
    Harlequin, would revel till the cold grey dawn came in.

      COLOMBINE. Light loves sometime were pleasant, but to-night the
    face of love seems changed. No more will stray this wandering heart
    of mine.

      PIERROT. Are you not sorry, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. Sorry for what, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. For loss of Harlequin.

      COLOMBINE. Harlequin is very clever but he talks of what he does
    not know, and promises what is not his to give. Cleverness is not
    everything, Pierrot. The mind is like a garden full of flowers, but
        The heart is a little house,
        With windows facing southerly;
        By which a pathway winds.
        And there, behind the blinds,
        We sit and wait,
        Watching, waiting for what?
        We know not.

    The garden is a pleasant place in summer, but when it is winter, we
    seek the fireside of the little house.

      PIERROT. Yet you are fond of gardens and pretty flowers, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. What flowers grow
          In your garden, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. My garden is full of the flowers,
          My mother planted for me;
          Curious, old-world flowers,
          Thyme, lavender, rosemary.
          Planted in days gone by.
          And, though no gardener I,
          As the shadows fall, I tend them all;
          Watering, pruning there.
          Am I happy in my lot?
          I know not.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. And there is the little house, Pierrot.

      PIERROT. Ah, yes there is the little house.
          Do you remember when
          You peeped through the pane, and then
          Went on your way again?
          Out of my sight, although,
          I beckoned you as you passed,
          And sat at my window mournfully.
          But you came again at last.
          And, seeing you come, I said;
          “The flowers in my garden are dead,
          So will she have no more of me.”

    COLOMBINE. I am knocking at the door, Pierrot.
          Knocking and waiting there,
          For the sound of a step on the stair.
          Will you open to me, Pierrot?

                                [PIERROT’S _answer may be taken in the
                                  affirmative. As they sit together, it
                                  grows dark._

[Illustration]

      PIERROT. [_Rising._] Come dear, and let us go,
    Together, hand in hand,
    Into that sun-lit land,
    Where life and love are things inseparable.
    Where, beneath cloudless skies,
    The happy are the wise,
    And none reprove the glory of a love they may not understand.

                                                     [_Exit together._
                          [_It becomes quite dark_: DAN’L _and an_ OLD
                            MAN _pass slowly across the stage, carrying
                            lanterns, and peering cautiously into the
                            blackness of the night_.

      THE OLD MAN. You was dreaming, Dan’l. That’s about the size of it.

      DAN’L. And I tells ee I wur as wide awake as you be. Us had been
    sitting over-long by the clump, and all of a sudden I looks up and
    sees a fairy. “Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l,” I sez, “be I dreaming or
    be I cracked?”

                              [_They pass off, and the curtain falls._


                                FINIS

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                             OTHER VERSES




                            THE MARIONETTE


        Man is merely a marionette
          On invisible wires suspended.
        And it’s just as well he shouldn’t forget
            That Fate the showman is in the wings,
            Working the business and pulling the strings
        Till his turn is over and ended.

        Man is merely a figure on strings,
          By the glare of the footlights blinded.
        And the wonderful way he dances and sings
            Is not unlikely to fill his mind
            With a great contempt for the Power behind,
        Till suddenly he’s reminded.

        Man is the cream of an idle jest,
          A smile on the face of sorrow.
        A sad peculiar figure at best;
            Willing to sacrifice every day,
            Breaking his heart in the hope of play
        On a problematical morrow.




                          A LETTER FROM HOME


        I’ve a letter from home to-day;
        A letter from home to say
        That they’re cutting the trees in the Priory Wood,
        That lambing is over and crops are good.
        Quite the usual thing, be it understood,
        Is my letter from home, to-day.

        I’ve a letter from home, to-day;
        A letter from far away,
        Bidding me ever to bear in mind
        The dear old friends I have left behind.
        But I’m not of the quickly forgetting kind,
        Dear letter from home, to-day!

        In my letter from home, to-day;
        Is a postscript, just to say
        “No doubt you’ll be very much grieved to hear
        That the girl who stayed at the Grange last year,
        Is dead, and was yesterday buried here.”
        And the world has ended, to-day.




                           THE EXPLANATION


                How do I know I love you?
                Why, because
                When you’re away, d’ye see,
                I kind o’ wanders lonesome like
                An’ frets,
                ’Cause you’re not there with me.
                An’ when I meet you by the stile
                At night,
                And not a soul to see,
                I scarce durst speak to you because
                You’re you, an’ I’m just me.




                              MEMORANDA


                In your Book of Memory,
                Set aside no page for me.
                Do not write our friendship there,
                But, if you’ve the time to spare,
                Scribble just this hurried line:
                “He was once a friend of mine.”

                Blot it very carefully,
                Turn the page that none may see.
                Life goes singing down the way
                Different ballads every day.
                Other pages open fair,
                Set new tales of friendship there.

                And the day will come maybe,
                When that hurried line of me;
                Seen by chance a moment’s space,
                Will recall a vanished face,
                And a memory sweeter than
                Many written pages can.




                      LOVE, LAUGHTER, AND AFTER


            The ruinous cottage, the broken latch;
            The cold stone floor and the dripping thatch.
            The ripe red lips of the girl who stands
            Holding her lover’s hands.

            The gay Casino, the fancy ball;
            The twinkling lights of the crowded hall.
            The cool sweet air of the terrace dim,
            Love and laughter and--him.

            The pitiful pageant that follows soon;
            The music hall and the cheap saloon.
            The sad procession, the coffee stall.
            The river that ends it all.




                             TH’ COORTIN’


                ’Tis just about a wik ago,
                  Or mebbe two, or theresabout,
                As I axed Kate why ur an’ Joe
                  Was seed together waalking out;
                Whenas, fur nigh upon a year,
                ’Twur I as had been coortin’ ur.

                “Why, laws-a-mussey, Bill,” ur sez,
                  “Fur certain sure ye must allow
                Us two caan’t alluz spend our days
                  The same as us be doin’ now.
                Ye’d better wed wi’ one ye doan’t
                Than waalk wi’ one ye do, as woan’t.”

                I cudden zackly understand
                  What ’twur as she was drivin’ at,
                Until I cotched ur by the hand
                  And took a peep ’erneath ur hat.
                Wur what I see surprised I so,
                  I gi’ed ur kiss, an’ whispered low:
                “Ye’d better wed the feller who
                Has alluz bin in luv wi’ you.”
                And that’s just what ur means to do.




                              AGREEMENT

                    Oyez! Oyez! Behold we state
                    The rules of this our Syndicate.


              Let it be granted first of all,
              That you are not so young and small
              As foolish people would suppose,
              From your long hair and shorter clothes.

              Item the second, please agree
              To just the opposite in me.
              For would the wisest man alive
              Imagine I was twenty-five?

              This done, folk cannot make a fuss,
              Or say that we’re preposterous.
              For you become, as all may see,
              A chaperone in charge of me.

              Thirdly, this reservation’s made,
              The Syndicate’s too old and staid
              To ride (though you’ll object no doubt)
              In swinging boat and roundabout.

              Fourthly, the world’s a dear old place,
              So always keep a smiling face.
              It suits you best, and as to that,
              So does pink chiffon in your hat.

              Lastly, lest envious folk combine
              To wreck your Syndicate, and mine,
              My autograph is here affixed,
              Written in blood and water mixed.

       _P.S._ It may not look like blood to you
              But recollect my blood is blue.




                             THE BURYIN’


                The mists be on the river bed,
                The roses all be gone;
                And here be I, about to die,
                Wi’ harvest coming on.
                Dear Lord, I’ve trapsed some weary miles,
                I’ll be main glad to rest awhiles.

                The folk’ll soon be in the fields,
                A-getting in the grain.
                For most of those, the time I’ve chose
                Be awkerd in the main.
                Though not so bad, ’tis sure, for they
                As be a-working by the day.

                September be a better month
                For all the carter men;
                And when I die don’t signify,
                So let I bide till then.
                The wagons’ll be standing by,
                And there’ll be time to bury I.




                          A ZONG TO ZING-OH!


            When the zun beyond the Beacon be a-zettin’
            And everything’s as quiet as can be,
            By the gate to varmur’s meddy,
            That old gate zo vurm and zteddy,
            You be pretty zure uv vindin’ Jim and me.

            When the mists along the valley be uprisin’
            And the nightingale’s a-zingin’ in the tree;
            When the peewits be a-zquawkin’
            Uz don’t waste no time a-talkin’
            Time’s a vasty zight too short sez Jim an’ me

            With the honeyzuckle zcent zo thick as treacle,
            And the chestnut blossoms droppin’ onto we;
            As us zets zo close together,
            Why zometimes I wonders whether
            Jim ull zet that close in Paradise to me.

            When the clocks down in the village be a-strikin’
            And darkness comes a-creepin’ up the lea,
            Then, though us be zeldom ready,
            Us must leave old varmur’s meddy,
            Or the volk ull all be wonderin’ where us be.




                                 SONG


            Long ago,
            (How long ago I really don’t know;)
            A kingfisher lived in a valley of green,
            The finest kingfisher that ever was seen--
            In that little green valley I know.

            Silent and slow
            All in a row, buttercups grow.
            One day the kingfisher selected his queen,
            And the bride wore a costume of purple and green
            ’Neath the willows that stand in a row.

            Heigho!
            (As the years go, still the streams flow)
            The whole of this summer they haven’t been seen,
            And a wood-pecker reigns in that valley serene.
            Where they’ve gone to I really don’t know.




                              PHILOSOPHY


                When I was young, in days gone by,
                I smoked Wild Woodbines on the sly.
                They made me ill, but what of that?
                ’Twas nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                If I had shirked that pallid brow
                I couldn’t smoke Havanas now.

                The only girl I ever kissed,
                Both found and left an optimist.
                She jilted me, but even that
                Was nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                I’ve such a cozy little den,
                And know a lot of married men.

                And now, although I’m getting stout,
                And though my hair is falling out,
                And people call me old and fat,
                There’s nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                Although I am a perfect fright,
                I don’t look bad by candle light.




                               FORFEITS


                You fail to catch the trencher spun
                And, later, when the game is done,
                The lady who collects the fees
                Demands a forfeit, if you please.
                You find a penny, grimed and black,
                And hope that you may get it back.

                You sit in speechless misery,
                And wonder what your fate will be,
                Until, within that giggling ring,
                You have to claim the wretched thing;
                Then sally forth upon your quest,
                To kiss the one you love the best.

                You don’t appreciate the fun,
                But curb a wild desire to run;
                Then seek a matron staid and stout,
                And drag the willing victim out;
                Because, of course, it wouldn’t do
                To kiss the girl you wanted to.




                             THE REVIVAL


            Take me away, for I will see no more;
            It was but yesterday I saw the play before,
            The day on which my dear and I were wed--
            Your mother, child--your mother who is dead.
            Why did you bring me here to see a play
            Which she and I saw only yesterday?




                         A PATRON OF THE ARTS


                    I knew a lady once I did,
                    Who lived away at Pontypridd;
                    She liked my verses very much,
                    And said I had the lyric touch.

                    She used to ask me round to lunch,
                    And say I ought to edit “Punch,”
                    As Owen S. and Francis B.,
                    Were amateurs compared to me.

                    Last week I met her in a batch
                    Of lunatics at Colney Hatch,
                    And heard she always spoke of me
                    As far surpassing Calverley.




                              CRITICISM


                A simple poet on a time,
                Resolved to write a simple rhyme.
                His verse was pleasing to the ear;
                He also made his meaning clear.

                The critics glanced at it, and said
                Such rubbish they had never read.
                A point on which they did agree,
                With touching unanimity.

                The simple poet took his lay,
                And turned it round the other way.
                Shuffled the sentences about,
                And took a dozen commas out.

                The critics took the volume, and
                Read, marked--and failed to understand.
                Then fell upon their stomachs flat,
                This prodigy to marvel at.




                           TREASON AND PLOT


                When I am very, very rich,
                  And very famous, too,
                I’ll take a cab to Regent’s Park,
                  And walk into the Zoo
                With quite a consequential air,
                For I shall be the richest there.

                And in a lordly way I’ll take
                  A shilling from my purse,
                And buy the biggest rattle-snake
                  To carry home to Nurse,
                And, as she’s very short of breath,
                Perhaps ’twill frighten her to death.




                        THE POPPY AND THE POET


                Like poppies in the golden corn,
                  The poet’s race is run;
                Each strives alike to gain the ear;
                  The poppy from the sun
                Borrows more radiance than gold--
                A poet’s much the same, I’m told.

                But still these differences appear
                  When everything is said;
                The poet’s leaves, I greatly fear,
                  Are very seldom read.
                Poppies but borrow from the sun--
                A poet will from anyone.




                              EL DORADO


                He sought it through the golden isles
                Of Once Upon a Time.
                In fabled fields of Might Have Been
                He heard its distant chime.
                He saw, mid Dreamland’s mystic glades,
                Its turrets from afar;
                And found it in the valley, where
                The deepest shadows are.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


The Project Gutenberg eBook of Colombine a fantasy
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Colombine a fantasy
        and other verses

Author: Reginald Arkell

Illustrator: Frederick Carter

Release date: June 19, 2025 [eBook #76341]

Language: English

Original publication: London: Benn and Cronin, Ltd, 1911

Credits: Carol Brown, Charlene Taylor and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***

Transcriber’s Note:

Words and phrases in italics are surrounded by underscores, _like
this_.

“ro” was changed to “to” ... desire to run ...




  COLOMBINE

  A FANTASY

  AND OTHER VERSES




  _LONDON_
  BENN AND CRONIN, LTD.
  CRAVEN HOUSE, KINGSWAY, W.C.
  1911




       _Copyright: Entered at Stationers’ Hall, December 1911.
                  Acting Rights strictly Reserved._




[Illustration: COLOMBINE.]




[Illustration:

  COLOMBINE
  A FANTASY

  BY REGINALD ARKELL

  WITH SOME DRAWINGS
  BY FREDERICK CARTER.]




[Illustration]




                            AUTHOR’S NOTE

“COLOMBINE” was first performed at Clavier Hall, Hanover Square, W.,
on Thursday, 7th December 1911, with the following cast:

    Dan’l (an old man)         MR. B. BUTLER.
    Nathan’l (a boy)           MR. A. E. FILMER.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Harlequin                  MR. REGINALD BACH.
    Pierrot                    MR. MARK HANNAM.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Colombine                  MISS ETHEL EVANS.

    The play was produced by MR. A. E. FILMER.


                                SCENE

  A ROMAN CAMP on the summit of Cissbury Beacon in the South Downs.
     A fairy ring occupies the foreground. All round are beech trees.
     The time is evening.




[Illustration]




                               PROLOGUE


    There are circles of green upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the Pharisees dance--so they say;
    Revelling merrily round it until
    The dawn over Ditchling is gray.
    And travellers lost upon Cissbury Hill--
    (Pixy-led folk who stray)
    Seated on toad-stools, with fairy folk sup,
    _But here, in Haymarket, the roadway is up_.

    There are circles of beech upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the leaves of a lifetime decay;
    Hiding the memories, lingering still,
    Of Rome’s indisputable sway.
    And under the beech-leaves of Cissbury Hill,
    Throbs the heart of the downland alway.
    While dreaming of chieftains and warriors in woad,
    _You’re lighting your pipe in the Charing Cross Road_.




[Illustration]




                              COLOMBINE


     _An old man and a boy are seen talking; both are labourers.
                 The old man, who is seated, speaks_:

      DAN’L. Well, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. There’s little use in stopping here much longer.

      NATHAN’L. Not as I can see.

      DAN’L. Like my old eyes, the sun don’t grow no stronger.

      NATHAN’L. And I wants my tea.

      DAN’L. Do ee, lad?

      NATHAN’L. Ah, main bad.

      DAN’L. Which means ’tis time to go, I reckons.

      NATHAN’L. That’s a proposition as I seconds.

      DAN’L. Come on then, let’s be moving. Tip us yer daddle.

      NATHAN’L. All of a sudden you be in a mortal caddle.
    I wants to hear the finish of that yarn
    As you was spinning down at Tranter’s Barn.
    A peck of troubles it was all about.
    I wants to know how everything turned out.

      DAN’L. You wants your tea, that’s what you wants, my son.

      NATHAN’L. There’s time enough for tea when you be done.

      DAN’L. Well, though ’tis little enough I read,
    I sid in a story-book years ago,
    (Though mind, Nathan’l, there beant no need
    To be letting on as I told ee so)
    That all the troubles as worrits a man
    Was locked in a box when the world began.

    And there no doubt they’d ha’ bid till now,
    If the dummel soul as had got the key,
    Hadn’t got mixed up with a maid somehow
    And gone and handed it over to she.
    And what do ee fancy the maiden did?
    Darn me, Nathan’l, ur lifted the lid.

[Illustration]

    And all they troubles come trooping out,
    Like hens from a chicken-run might have done.
    For the maiden fancied without a doubt,
    They’d go back in the evening like, one by one.
    But time’s got to settle a few more clocks,
    Afore they troubles goes back to their box.

    Straight, Nathan’l, ’tis near enough
    To make a methody parson swear.
    And every time as I reads such stuff,
    I goes so red as yon moon up there.
    To think of the trouble ur brought on we--
    I reckon I owes my old gal to she.

      NATHAN’L. Is it true, do ee think, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, mebbe not, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee think, Dan’l--she let out the lot?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe not.

      NATHAN’L. Sounds like a fairy story to me.

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe, mebbe.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee believe in fairies, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Can’t be sure as I do, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, I don’t anyway, and that’s a fact.

                          _Enter_ COLOMBINE.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l, be I dreaming or be I cracked?

      NATHAN’L. My goodness, Dan’l, I do believe as she’s a fairy....

      DAN’L. Here, come into the shadow of these trees,
    And give that clacking tongue of yourn a rest.

      NATHAN’L. Oh, this be more wonderful than all the things I ever
          guessed.

      DAN’L. And it means _summat_ that you _may_ depend.

      NATHAN’L. See, where she walks, the grass don’t even bend
    Beneath her feet. She be a fairy, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. I wish you’d hold your clacking tongue, Nathan’l.

                      [COLOMBINE, _hearing a noise, pauses to listen_.

      COLOMBINE. Who’s there? The daylight fades. I cannot see.

      DAN’L. You go.

      NATHAN’L.     No, you.

      DAN’L.                So please you, Miss, ’tis we.

      COLOMBINE. Good evening, Sirs.

      DAN’L.                Our best respects to ee.
    A goodish evening to be sure, but getting dark and cold.
    Time gals like you was safe abed, if I might make so bold.

      COLOMBINE. Old man, the night has but begun.

      DAN’L. The day be done.

      COLOMBINE. The moon has scarcely risen yet.

      DAN’L. The sun have set.

      COLOMBINE. The sun his wandering footsteps stays to greet the crescent moon.
    The nightjar and the nightingale will both be singing soon.

      DAN’L. Us don’t set much store by nightingales in these parts,
            and as for nightjars! Oh lor, us shoots they.
          Give I a linnet now,
          A-sitting on a bough;
          As sings his message to the sun,
          And goes to sleep when day be done,
          Respectable like!

      NATHAN’L. [_Coming forward._]
          Queer things,
          These here rings
          You sees in the grass
          When you pass.
          They say ’tis where Pharisees dances at night!
          Be that right?

      COLOMBINE. Quite right; yet once the circle that you see,
    Saw war and tumult.

      DAN’L.           Lawks-a-mussey me!

      COLOMBINE. The Roman legions camped on yonder brow,
    And built the road you stand on.

      NATHAN’L.                     Did they now!

      COLOMBINE. The sun would sink out yonder in the west,
    And shine upon their helmets.

      DAN’L.                      Well I’m blest!

      COLOMBINE. The very spot where Julius Caesar sat,
    Lies just behind those beeches.

      NATHAN’L.                    Think of that!

      COLOMBINE. In yonder barrow treasures rare lie hid.
    Dig deep to find them.

      DAN’L.               Well I never did!

      NATHAN’L. But when did all this
                Happen, Miss?
                How many years ago,
                I’d like to know?

      COLOMBINE. Roughly two thousand, on this very spot.

      DAN’L. Lor! What a memory you must have got.

      COLOMBINE. [_To_ NATHAN’L.] But tell me please;
    Beneath these trees,
    What travellers come, and whither bound?
    Do still these ancient heights resound
    With martial music and the tramp of men?

      NATHAN’L. Us gets a hurdy-gurdy now and then,
    And once a clown on stilts went through the wood;
    And oh! he could catch pennies, that he could.

      COLOMBINE. But in what fashion do you pass your days?

      NATHAN’L. I kill the time in various sorts of ways.
    Scaring the rooks as settles on the corn;
    Helping the shepherd when the lambs be born.
    Talking to Dan’l about these here rings,
    And wondering about a power of things.
    As don’t concern nobody, I suppose.
    But then, you must do summat, goodness knows.

      COLOMBINE. Of course. ’Tis lonely here without a doubt.
    What are the things you’re wondering about
    To-day?

[Illustration]

      NATHAN’L. Such things as surely never was.
    Such things as surely no one ever does.
    And yet, of nothing, for they moves so fast,
    You finds as you’ve forgotten them at last.
    Just like a dream they passes and be gone.
    Just like a dream they passes....

      COLOMBINE.                      Yes, go on.

      NATHAN’L. Just like a dream, for though I thinks a lot,
    Before they’re rightly thought they’re clean forgot.
    Though somehow, now I sits and talks to you,
    I keeps remembering things I never knew.
    Just like as though somebody slammed a door,
    When you was going where you’d been before;
    Leaving you standing on the further side,
    Wondering at what was happening inside.
    Whether the folk you knew was there or not;
    Whether you really knew, and had forgot;
    Whether you’d been there once when you was small,
    Or whether you was never there at all.
    ’Tis plaguey awkerd, wondering, that it be.
    And now I must be off, I wants my tea.                    [_Exit._

      COLOMBINE. Good-bye. And think sometimes of me.

                           [_Rousing herself from the brown study into
                             which this revelation has thrown her, and
                             addressing_ DAN’L.

    Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. [_Startled._] Eh?

      COLOMBINE. Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. It all depends. Why?

      COLOMBINE. There’s going to be a fight.

      DAN’L. When? Where?

      COLOMBINE. Very soon.
             By the light of the moon.
             On the very stroke of nine.
             All for love of Colombine.

      DAN’L. Shall I fetch a policeman?

      COLOMBINE. A policeman! Dear me, no.

      DAN’L. Who’s going to fight.

      COLOMBINE. Don’t you know?
                             Harlequin and Pierrot.

      DAN’L. Never heard of they.

      COLOMBINE. Won’t it be fun?

      DAN’L. Good fun
                      For the one as gets killed.

      COLOMBINE. But they won’t kill each other. They never do. They’re
    _most_ dependable.

      DAN’L. Have um fought before?

      COLOMBINE. Of course. Hundreds of times.

      DAN’L. Silly young chaps.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. They’re not silly. They’re fighting for me. Don’t you
    understand?

      DAN’L. I fought about a girl once. But only once. It was a long
    time ago.

      COLOMBINE. You’re not romantic. Romance would die if it wasn’t
    for fighting. Romance _is_ fighting.

      DAN’L. Then I’ve had quite enough romance to please me.

      COLOMBINE. All properly constituted love affairs should include
    a fight. Love without fighting is insipid.

      DAN’L. _You_ don’t have to do the fighting. Which of ’em loves
    you the most?

      COLOMBINE. Why, Pierrot, of course.

      DAN’L. Then why don’t you marry him?

      COLOMBINE. And disappoint Harlequin? I couldn’t do that.

      DAN’L. When are you going to decide?

      COLOMBINE. I don’t know. [_On her fingers._] This year, next
    year, some time, never. To-night perhaps.

      DAN’L. One day they’ll get tired of fighting. What then?

      COLOMBINE. Never!

      DAN’L. You’re sure of that?

      COLOMBINE. Oh, yes. Quite sure.

      DAN’L. One of them may get killed.

      COLOMBINE. They wouldn’t be so careless.

      DAN’L. What should you do if one of ’em got killed by accident?

      COLOMBINE. I should be very angry. But you’re very horrid to
    suggest such things. Why don’t you go away?

      DAN’L. Good-bye.

      COLOMBINE. No, stay.

      DAN’L. Well, I’m fond of a fight, I must say.

      COLOMBINE. Hush! They are coming. Quick, behind this tree.

      DAN’L. Anywhere in the background’s good enough for me.

      COLOMBINE. A fight, a fight! And all for love of me.

                    [_The orchestra plays quietly the Soldiers’ Chorus
                        and snatches of other martial refrains. The
                        two watchers betray tense excitement._
                        HARLEQUIN _and_ PIERROT _enter arm in arm.
                        Any differences they may have had are evidently
                        settled._ COLOMBINE _looks on in astonishment_.

[Illustration]

      HARLEQUIN. Mind you, as girls go, Colombine’s one of the best.

      PIERROT. Ah yes.

      HARLEQUIN. But nothing to fight about.

      PIERROT. [_Without conviction._] No.

      HARLEQUIN. And fighting’s going out of fashion. There’s no doubt
    about that.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. The whole trend of modern thought is opposed to it.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. None of the best people do it.

      PIERROT. I suppose not.

      HARLEQUIN. And one must be in the movement.

      PIERROT. Of course.

      HARLEQUIN. Arbitration’s the thing nowadays.

      PIERROT. What’s that?

      HARLEQUIN. Why, you each talk until you’re out of breath, and
    the one with most breath wins.

      PIERROT. [_Taking a deep breath._] That seems a good idea.

      HARLEQUIN. It is.

      PIERROT. But what will Colombine say if we don’t fight? She loves
    to watch us fight.

      HARLEQUIN. My dear chap, we must be firm. Adopt your point of
    view, and stick to it in the face of all opposition.

      COLOMBINE. [_Advancing._] Aren’t you going to fight?

      PIERROT. [_Kindly._] Not to-night.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! Why not?

      HARLEQUIN. Well, we’ve got
                 Other fish to fry,
                 That’s why.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! do fight!

      PIERROT. Not to-night.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, my dear girl, do listen to reason. You will admit,
    I suppose, that the most elementary point about a duel is to spit
    your opponent through the gizzard.

      COLOMBINE. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. Well, I haven’t got a gizzard, and what’s the use of
    trying to spit a man’s gizzard, if he hasn’t got a gizzard to spit?
    You must be reasonable.

      COLOMBINE. How do you know you haven’t got a gizzard?

      HARLEQUIN. We don’t know for certain, we assume.

      PIERROT. You’ve only to look at him to see there isn’t room.

      COLOMBINE. But why the gizzard? What does it matter _where_ you
    spit him so long as you do spit him?

      HARLEQUIN. For heaven’s sake, my dear girl, don’t preach such
    revolutionary doctrines. There is a certain etiquette to be
    observed, even in a battle.

      COLOMBINE. [_After a pause._] But it’s quite simple. You spit
    Pierrot. He’s got a gizzard, I suppose.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. Pierrot consulted a phrenologist....

      PIERROT. Soothsayer!

      HARLEQUIN. Sorry--soothsayer, who said he was born to be hung....

      PIERROT. Hanged!

      HARLEQUIN. Hanged, and so of course, he doesn’t want to run the
    risk of disappointing him.

      COLOMBINE. Very considerate, I’m sure.
    I think you’re absolutely _horrid_, there.               [_Cries._

      HARLEQUIN. [_To_ PIERROT.] Don’t waver, both together.

      HARLEQUIN and PIERROT. We don’t care
          Tuppence what you think or say,
          We talked the matter over, here to-day;
          And arbitration is the only way.

      COLOMBINE. You’re frightened.

      HARLEQUIN. Don’t be silly. Frightened! Me!

      COLOMBINE. Well, who’s your arbitrator going to be?

      HARLEQUIN. [_Taken aback._] Why yes, we must have someone, I
        suppose.
    But who’s to do it?

      PIERROT.          Goodness only knows!
    There’s not a single person within call.

    COLOMBINE. [_Clapping her hands._] Hurrah! You’ll have to fight,
      then, after all.

                       [_There is a pause, during which_ PIERROT _and_
                       HARLEQUIN _look at each other in dismay_.
                       COLOMBINE _on the other hand claps her
                       hands and pirouettes round the stage. Then_
                       HARLEQUIN _sees_ DAN’L _and drags him forward
                       at the same time speaking in asides_.

      HARLEQUIN. What’s your name?

      DAN’L. Much the same
            As it’s always bin,
            Week out, week in,
            This seventy year and more.

      HARLEQUIN. Good! We want you to arbitrate.
    You’re the very man.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey. I’ll do it if I can.

      HARLEQUIN. There’s much gold.
               Wealth untold!
               If you only do
               As I tell you to.

      DAN’L. Fire away!

      HARLEQUIN. Until to-day, Pierrot and I have been in the habit of
    engaging in mortal combat for the hand of Colombine. Owing to the
    fact that up to the present neither has had the decency to get
    killed, and as a result of the wave of anti-militarism that has
    swept over the country, we have decided to fall back on arbitration.
    And you are the arbitrator. You understand?

      DAN’L. No!

      HARLEQUIN. Then you’re very thick.

      DAN’L. You speaks too quick
    And the way you keeps hopping about makes me fair mazed.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. One of us is to marry
    Colombine, and you’ve to decide which it’s to be.
    Do you see?

      DAN’L. No.

      HARLEQUIN. But it’s quite simple.

      DAN’L. Maybe. But how do I know which it’s to be?

      HARLEQUIN. I’ll let you into a secret. It’s me!

      DAN’L. Oh! And if I goes and sez ’tis you,
    What’s yon chap in the white trousers going to do?

      HARLEQUIN. Never mind him. He’s a fool.

      DAN’L. It seems it don’t much matter what I say;
    I’m bound to upset one of ye either way.
    Oh! very well.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Pierrot! Gather round.

                        [_They sit in a semicircle_; COLOMBINE _and_
                          DAN’L _in the centre_.

      DAN’L. I shall catch my death of cold, sitting on this damp
    ground.

                        [_There is silence, each waiting for the other
                          to speak._

      COLOMBINE. You don’t seem very anxious, either of you.

      DAN’L. Who goes first?

      HARLEQUIN. If I don’t say something, and quickly, I shall burst.

      DAN’L. Then you’d best get started. [_Aside._] How long will it take?

      HARLEQUIN. Until it’s ended.

      DAN’L. Cut it short for goodness’ sake.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Let me take you away from these lonely hills.
    Into the heart of the world where lies the Land of Yesterday. There
    are stored all the happy hours that you have known. You shall live
    them all over again, Colombine--every one. I will lead you by secret
    paths, through the dim woods of yesternight until we stand together
    in the sunlight of the days that have been. Walking backward through
    the years, we will collect those dear lost delights, of which only
    the memory remains. From all that has gone before, it shall be yours
    to pick and choose, and no To-morrow shall throw its ominous shade
    before. The past shall deliver up its treasures to your hand; regrets
    shall be ended, and happiness shall be sure. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. No, Harlequin. The road to your Land of Yesterday is
    longer than you know, and there is no going back. Let us still take
    from the past our memories and our dreams, but do not ask for more,
    lest even these be denied.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: THE GATEWAY OF HAPPINESS]

      HARLEQUIN. As you will. Then it is to the future that we must
    turn. Colombine, far from here, set in a desert of hot sand, is a
    crystal, so large, that all the giants of Africa could not stir
    it the thickness of a hair. Peering into its depths, you may read
    your future to the end of time. A day, a week, a year, shall be no
    barrier to the vision of the mind. You may read all the riddles of
    the universe, and there will remain nothing that you do not know. You
    shall see your face as it will be when twice twenty harvest moons
    have waned, and fifty summer suns have set. And I, alone, can point
    you the way. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. You promise much, Harlequin. It may well be that in some
    spot remote from the haunts of men, the Mirror of Fate yet lies hid.
    And you may find it. Who knows! But this, at least, is certain; the
    path will be difficult and the journey long. Would you not tire by
    the way, Harlequin? I think you would. [_Pause._] And, it is not in
    distant deserts I would seek. In the woods of home, hearts may thrill
    to the eloquent silences of the night. [HARLEQUIN _rises_.] All the
    secrets of the world might be ours, did we but care to learn the
    simple language of the nightingale. Across the moonlight, the shadows
    of the branches trace unforgettable things. Great secrets tremble on
    the lips of the leaves, and mortals grope vainly in the daylight for
    things seen most plainly in the dark.

      DAN’L. [_Coughing to draw attention to himself._]
    I’ve allus noticed, in whatever parts I med ha’ bin,
    A maid in love have allus got a fairish yarn to spin.
    And in whatever parts I’ve bin, I’ve allus noticed too,
    The foolish lads do take it all for gospel, that um do.
    But though I’ve kept good notice in whatever parts I was,
    I’ve never heard a maid to spin a yarn like this un does.
    Ur be a marvel, that ur be; I hope as ur won’t try
    When ur’s tired of you two fellows here, to spin no yarns to I;
    For fools be mostly biggest fools when um be old and grey.
    And if I went along o’ she, what _ud_ my missus say.
    Next man?

      COLOMBINE. Come, Pierrot!

      PIERROT. [_With an effort._] Colombine!

      COLOMBINE. Yes, Pierrot.

      HARLEQUIN. Go on!

      DAN’L. Let’s hear what you’ve got to say, young fellow.

      PIERROT. There is nothing to say.

      COLOMBINE. Nothing to say!

      PIERROT. Save that I love you, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. And is that so small a thing, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. But I have nothing to offer you, nothing.

      COLOMBINE. [_Softly._] Save yourself.

      HARLEQUIN. I have always said that Pierrot was master of sounding
    silences. The sweetest singer of unsung songs, his eloquent nothings
    go shrieking through the void. He scorns to desecrate the virgin
    purity of his foolscap with the written word. What love is that which
    dare not tell its love? Come, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. See, Harlequin, here is a beech nut. You shake it, yet
    there is no sound. Is it full? Is it empty?

      HARLEQUIN. Who can say?

      DAN’L. Likewise, young Nathan’l he picks up a match-box last week,
    and throws it away because there was no sound when he rattles en
    [_To_ HARLEQUIN.] And what do you think?

      HARLEQUIN. I couldn’t say.

      DAN’L. It was so full all the time as not to rattle at all.

      HARLEQUIN. [_Scornfully._] Matches! ye gods! Let’s talk of cucumbers,
    Or shame the glory of this summer night
    With tales of warming-pans.
    Has no one here a button-hook,
    With which to probe the vast unsounded deeps
    [_To_ DAN’L.] Of thy poor addled brain.
    It yet may be,
    In some uncharted corner of the void
    That passes for thy mind,
    We find a collar-stud.
    Farewell!                                                 [_Exit._

      DAN’L. Well, he won’t come back again, that I will be bound,
    And as I be catching my death of cold, sitting on this damp ground,
    I’d best be moving. [_Rises._] Ugh! Good-night to ee.

      PIERROT. Good-night!

      COLOMBINE. [_Aside to_ DAN’L.] And, Mr. Arbitrator, if you see
    Your friend Nathan’l, say that Pierrot
    Owes more to him than he will ever know. [_Exit_ DAN’L.

      COLOMBINE. They have gone!

      PIERROT. Ah!

      COLOMBINE. And the night draws on.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      COLOMBINE. You are sad. Why are you sad, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. I cannot tell.

      COLOMBINE. And you are cold. Is it the night air?

      PIERROT. The wind-swept wold
    Is a street of gold,
    So my lady be walking there.

      COLOMBINE. Yet you are sad. See, they have gone and will not
    come again.

      PIERROT. So love may vanish too,
    And of his chain no link remain
    To tell the way he flew.

      COLOMBINE. Love, as the skylark, soars into that Heaven where’t
    fain would be.

      PIERROT. And singing still, returns. Time was when you, with
    Harlequin, would revel till the cold grey dawn came in.

      COLOMBINE. Light loves sometime were pleasant, but to-night the
    face of love seems changed. No more will stray this wandering heart
    of mine.

      PIERROT. Are you not sorry, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. Sorry for what, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. For loss of Harlequin.

      COLOMBINE. Harlequin is very clever but he talks of what he does
    not know, and promises what is not his to give. Cleverness is not
    everything, Pierrot. The mind is like a garden full of flowers, but
        The heart is a little house,
        With windows facing southerly;
        By which a pathway winds.
        And there, behind the blinds,
        We sit and wait,
        Watching, waiting for what?
        We know not.

    The garden is a pleasant place in summer, but when it is winter, we
    seek the fireside of the little house.

      PIERROT. Yet you are fond of gardens and pretty flowers, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. What flowers grow
          In your garden, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. My garden is full of the flowers,
          My mother planted for me;
          Curious, old-world flowers,
          Thyme, lavender, rosemary.
          Planted in days gone by.
          And, though no gardener I,
          As the shadows fall, I tend them all;
          Watering, pruning there.
          Am I happy in my lot?
          I know not.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. And there is the little house, Pierrot.

      PIERROT. Ah, yes there is the little house.
          Do you remember when
          You peeped through the pane, and then
          Went on your way again?
          Out of my sight, although,
          I beckoned you as you passed,
          And sat at my window mournfully.
          But you came again at last.
          And, seeing you come, I said;
          “The flowers in my garden are dead,
          So will she have no more of me.”

    COLOMBINE. I am knocking at the door, Pierrot.
          Knocking and waiting there,
          For the sound of a step on the stair.
          Will you open to me, Pierrot?

                                [PIERROT’S _answer may be taken in the
                                  affirmative. As they sit together, it
                                  grows dark._

[Illustration]

      PIERROT. [_Rising._] Come dear, and let us go,
    Together, hand in hand,
    Into that sun-lit land,
    Where life and love are things inseparable.
    Where, beneath cloudless skies,
    The happy are the wise,
    And none reprove the glory of a love they may not understand.

                                                     [_Exit together._
                          [_It becomes quite dark_: DAN’L _and an_ OLD
                            MAN _pass slowly across the stage, carrying
                            lanterns, and peering cautiously into the
                            blackness of the night_.

      THE OLD MAN. You was dreaming, Dan’l. That’s about the size of it.

      DAN’L. And I tells ee I wur as wide awake as you be. Us had been
    sitting over-long by the clump, and all of a sudden I looks up and
    sees a fairy. “Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l,” I sez, “be I dreaming or
    be I cracked?”

                              [_They pass off, and the curtain falls._


                                FINIS

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                             OTHER VERSES




                            THE MARIONETTE


        Man is merely a marionette
          On invisible wires suspended.
        And it’s just as well he shouldn’t forget
            That Fate the showman is in the wings,
            Working the business and pulling the strings
        Till his turn is over and ended.

        Man is merely a figure on strings,
          By the glare of the footlights blinded.
        And the wonderful way he dances and sings
            Is not unlikely to fill his mind
            With a great contempt for the Power behind,
        Till suddenly he’s reminded.

        Man is the cream of an idle jest,
          A smile on the face of sorrow.
        A sad peculiar figure at best;
            Willing to sacrifice every day,
            Breaking his heart in the hope of play
        On a problematical morrow.




                          A LETTER FROM HOME


        I’ve a letter from home to-day;
        A letter from home to say
        That they’re cutting the trees in the Priory Wood,
        That lambing is over and crops are good.
        Quite the usual thing, be it understood,
        Is my letter from home, to-day.

        I’ve a letter from home, to-day;
        A letter from far away,
        Bidding me ever to bear in mind
        The dear old friends I have left behind.
        But I’m not of the quickly forgetting kind,
        Dear letter from home, to-day!

        In my letter from home, to-day;
        Is a postscript, just to say
        “No doubt you’ll be very much grieved to hear
        That the girl who stayed at the Grange last year,
        Is dead, and was yesterday buried here.”
        And the world has ended, to-day.




                           THE EXPLANATION


                How do I know I love you?
                Why, because
                When you’re away, d’ye see,
                I kind o’ wanders lonesome like
                An’ frets,
                ’Cause you’re not there with me.
                An’ when I meet you by the stile
                At night,
                And not a soul to see,
                I scarce durst speak to you because
                You’re you, an’ I’m just me.




                              MEMORANDA


                In your Book of Memory,
                Set aside no page for me.
                Do not write our friendship there,
                But, if you’ve the time to spare,
                Scribble just this hurried line:
                “He was once a friend of mine.”

                Blot it very carefully,
                Turn the page that none may see.
                Life goes singing down the way
                Different ballads every day.
                Other pages open fair,
                Set new tales of friendship there.

                And the day will come maybe,
                When that hurried line of me;
                Seen by chance a moment’s space,
                Will recall a vanished face,
                And a memory sweeter than
                Many written pages can.




                      LOVE, LAUGHTER, AND AFTER


            The ruinous cottage, the broken latch;
            The cold stone floor and the dripping thatch.
            The ripe red lips of the girl who stands
            Holding her lover’s hands.

            The gay Casino, the fancy ball;
            The twinkling lights of the crowded hall.
            The cool sweet air of the terrace dim,
            Love and laughter and--him.

            The pitiful pageant that follows soon;
            The music hall and the cheap saloon.
            The sad procession, the coffee stall.
            The river that ends it all.




                             TH’ COORTIN’


                ’Tis just about a wik ago,
                  Or mebbe two, or theresabout,
                As I axed Kate why ur an’ Joe
                  Was seed together waalking out;
                Whenas, fur nigh upon a year,
                ’Twur I as had been coortin’ ur.

                “Why, laws-a-mussey, Bill,” ur sez,
                  “Fur certain sure ye must allow
                Us two caan’t alluz spend our days
                  The same as us be doin’ now.
                Ye’d better wed wi’ one ye doan’t
                Than waalk wi’ one ye do, as woan’t.”

                I cudden zackly understand
                  What ’twur as she was drivin’ at,
                Until I cotched ur by the hand
                  And took a peep ’erneath ur hat.
                Wur what I see surprised I so,
                  I gi’ed ur kiss, an’ whispered low:
                “Ye’d better wed the feller who
                Has alluz bin in luv wi’ you.”
                And that’s just what ur means to do.




                              AGREEMENT

                    Oyez! Oyez! Behold we state
                    The rules of this our Syndicate.


              Let it be granted first of all,
              That you are not so young and small
              As foolish people would suppose,
              From your long hair and shorter clothes.

              Item the second, please agree
              To just the opposite in me.
              For would the wisest man alive
              Imagine I was twenty-five?

              This done, folk cannot make a fuss,
              Or say that we’re preposterous.
              For you become, as all may see,
              A chaperone in charge of me.

              Thirdly, this reservation’s made,
              The Syndicate’s too old and staid
              To ride (though you’ll object no doubt)
              In swinging boat and roundabout.

              Fourthly, the world’s a dear old place,
              So always keep a smiling face.
              It suits you best, and as to that,
              So does pink chiffon in your hat.

              Lastly, lest envious folk combine
              To wreck your Syndicate, and mine,
              My autograph is here affixed,
              Written in blood and water mixed.

       _P.S._ It may not look like blood to you
              But recollect my blood is blue.




                             THE BURYIN’


                The mists be on the river bed,
                The roses all be gone;
                And here be I, about to die,
                Wi’ harvest coming on.
                Dear Lord, I’ve trapsed some weary miles,
                I’ll be main glad to rest awhiles.

                The folk’ll soon be in the fields,
                A-getting in the grain.
                For most of those, the time I’ve chose
                Be awkerd in the main.
                Though not so bad, ’tis sure, for they
                As be a-working by the day.

                September be a better month
                For all the carter men;
                And when I die don’t signify,
                So let I bide till then.
                The wagons’ll be standing by,
                And there’ll be time to bury I.




                          A ZONG TO ZING-OH!


            When the zun beyond the Beacon be a-zettin’
            And everything’s as quiet as can be,
            By the gate to varmur’s meddy,
            That old gate zo vurm and zteddy,
            You be pretty zure uv vindin’ Jim and me.

            When the mists along the valley be uprisin’
            And the nightingale’s a-zingin’ in the tree;
            When the peewits be a-zquawkin’
            Uz don’t waste no time a-talkin’
            Time’s a vasty zight too short sez Jim an’ me

            With the honeyzuckle zcent zo thick as treacle,
            And the chestnut blossoms droppin’ onto we;
            As us zets zo close together,
            Why zometimes I wonders whether
            Jim ull zet that close in Paradise to me.

            When the clocks down in the village be a-strikin’
            And darkness comes a-creepin’ up the lea,
            Then, though us be zeldom ready,
            Us must leave old varmur’s meddy,
            Or the volk ull all be wonderin’ where us be.




                                 SONG


            Long ago,
            (How long ago I really don’t know;)
            A kingfisher lived in a valley of green,
            The finest kingfisher that ever was seen--
            In that little green valley I know.

            Silent and slow
            All in a row, buttercups grow.
            One day the kingfisher selected his queen,
            And the bride wore a costume of purple and green
            ’Neath the willows that stand in a row.

            Heigho!
            (As the years go, still the streams flow)
            The whole of this summer they haven’t been seen,
            And a wood-pecker reigns in that valley serene.
            Where they’ve gone to I really don’t know.




                              PHILOSOPHY


                When I was young, in days gone by,
                I smoked Wild Woodbines on the sly.
                They made me ill, but what of that?
                ’Twas nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                If I had shirked that pallid brow
                I couldn’t smoke Havanas now.

                The only girl I ever kissed,
                Both found and left an optimist.
                She jilted me, but even that
                Was nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                I’ve such a cozy little den,
                And know a lot of married men.

                And now, although I’m getting stout,
                And though my hair is falling out,
                And people call me old and fat,
                There’s nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                Although I am a perfect fright,
                I don’t look bad by candle light.




                               FORFEITS


                You fail to catch the trencher spun
                And, later, when the game is done,
                The lady who collects the fees
                Demands a forfeit, if you please.
                You find a penny, grimed and black,
                And hope that you may get it back.

                You sit in speechless misery,
                And wonder what your fate will be,
                Until, within that giggling ring,
                You have to claim the wretched thing;
                Then sally forth upon your quest,
                To kiss the one you love the best.

                You don’t appreciate the fun,
                But curb a wild desire to run;
                Then seek a matron staid and stout,
                And drag the willing victim out;
                Because, of course, it wouldn’t do
                To kiss the girl you wanted to.




                             THE REVIVAL


            Take me away, for I will see no more;
            It was but yesterday I saw the play before,
            The day on which my dear and I were wed--
            Your mother, child--your mother who is dead.
            Why did you bring me here to see a play
            Which she and I saw only yesterday?




                         A PATRON OF THE ARTS


                    I knew a lady once I did,
                    Who lived away at Pontypridd;
                    She liked my verses very much,
                    And said I had the lyric touch.

                    She used to ask me round to lunch,
                    And say I ought to edit “Punch,”
                    As Owen S. and Francis B.,
                    Were amateurs compared to me.

                    Last week I met her in a batch
                    Of lunatics at Colney Hatch,
                    And heard she always spoke of me
                    As far surpassing Calverley.




                              CRITICISM


                A simple poet on a time,
                Resolved to write a simple rhyme.
                His verse was pleasing to the ear;
                He also made his meaning clear.

                The critics glanced at it, and said
                Such rubbish they had never read.
                A point on which they did agree,
                With touching unanimity.

                The simple poet took his lay,
                And turned it round the other way.
                Shuffled the sentences about,
                And took a dozen commas out.

                The critics took the volume, and
                Read, marked--and failed to understand.
                Then fell upon their stomachs flat,
                This prodigy to marvel at.




                           TREASON AND PLOT


                When I am very, very rich,
                  And very famous, too,
                I’ll take a cab to Regent’s Park,
                  And walk into the Zoo
                With quite a consequential air,
                For I shall be the richest there.

                And in a lordly way I’ll take
                  A shilling from my purse,
                And buy the biggest rattle-snake
                  To carry home to Nurse,
                And, as she’s very short of breath,
                Perhaps ’twill frighten her to death.




                        THE POPPY AND THE POET


                Like poppies in the golden corn,
                  The poet’s race is run;
                Each strives alike to gain the ear;
                  The poppy from the sun
                Borrows more radiance than gold--
                A poet’s much the same, I’m told.

                But still these differences appear
                  When everything is said;
                The poet’s leaves, I greatly fear,
                  Are very seldom read.
                Poppies but borrow from the sun--
                A poet will from anyone.




                              EL DORADO


                He sought it through the golden isles
                Of Once Upon a Time.
                In fabled fields of Might Have Been
                He heard its distant chime.
                He saw, mid Dreamland’s mystic glades,
                Its turrets from afar;
                And found it in the valley, where
                The deepest shadows are.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


The Project Gutenberg eBook of Colombine a fantasy
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Colombine a fantasy
        and other verses

Author: Reginald Arkell

Illustrator: Frederick Carter

Release date: June 19, 2025 [eBook #76341]

Language: English

Original publication: London: Benn and Cronin, Ltd, 1911

Credits: Carol Brown, Charlene Taylor and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***

Transcriber’s Note:

Words and phrases in italics are surrounded by underscores, _like
this_.

“ro” was changed to “to” ... desire to run ...




  COLOMBINE

  A FANTASY

  AND OTHER VERSES




  _LONDON_
  BENN AND CRONIN, LTD.
  CRAVEN HOUSE, KINGSWAY, W.C.
  1911




       _Copyright: Entered at Stationers’ Hall, December 1911.
                  Acting Rights strictly Reserved._




[Illustration: COLOMBINE.]




[Illustration:

  COLOMBINE
  A FANTASY

  BY REGINALD ARKELL

  WITH SOME DRAWINGS
  BY FREDERICK CARTER.]




[Illustration]




                            AUTHOR’S NOTE

“COLOMBINE” was first performed at Clavier Hall, Hanover Square, W.,
on Thursday, 7th December 1911, with the following cast:

    Dan’l (an old man)         MR. B. BUTLER.
    Nathan’l (a boy)           MR. A. E. FILMER.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Harlequin                  MR. REGINALD BACH.
    Pierrot                    MR. MARK HANNAM.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Colombine                  MISS ETHEL EVANS.

    The play was produced by MR. A. E. FILMER.


                                SCENE

  A ROMAN CAMP on the summit of Cissbury Beacon in the South Downs.
     A fairy ring occupies the foreground. All round are beech trees.
     The time is evening.




[Illustration]




                               PROLOGUE


    There are circles of green upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the Pharisees dance--so they say;
    Revelling merrily round it until
    The dawn over Ditchling is gray.
    And travellers lost upon Cissbury Hill--
    (Pixy-led folk who stray)
    Seated on toad-stools, with fairy folk sup,
    _But here, in Haymarket, the roadway is up_.

    There are circles of beech upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the leaves of a lifetime decay;
    Hiding the memories, lingering still,
    Of Rome’s indisputable sway.
    And under the beech-leaves of Cissbury Hill,
    Throbs the heart of the downland alway.
    While dreaming of chieftains and warriors in woad,
    _You’re lighting your pipe in the Charing Cross Road_.




[Illustration]




                              COLOMBINE


     _An old man and a boy are seen talking; both are labourers.
                 The old man, who is seated, speaks_:

      DAN’L. Well, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. There’s little use in stopping here much longer.

      NATHAN’L. Not as I can see.

      DAN’L. Like my old eyes, the sun don’t grow no stronger.

      NATHAN’L. And I wants my tea.

      DAN’L. Do ee, lad?

      NATHAN’L. Ah, main bad.

      DAN’L. Which means ’tis time to go, I reckons.

      NATHAN’L. That’s a proposition as I seconds.

      DAN’L. Come on then, let’s be moving. Tip us yer daddle.

      NATHAN’L. All of a sudden you be in a mortal caddle.
    I wants to hear the finish of that yarn
    As you was spinning down at Tranter’s Barn.
    A peck of troubles it was all about.
    I wants to know how everything turned out.

      DAN’L. You wants your tea, that’s what you wants, my son.

      NATHAN’L. There’s time enough for tea when you be done.

      DAN’L. Well, though ’tis little enough I read,
    I sid in a story-book years ago,
    (Though mind, Nathan’l, there beant no need
    To be letting on as I told ee so)
    That all the troubles as worrits a man
    Was locked in a box when the world began.

    And there no doubt they’d ha’ bid till now,
    If the dummel soul as had got the key,
    Hadn’t got mixed up with a maid somehow
    And gone and handed it over to she.
    And what do ee fancy the maiden did?
    Darn me, Nathan’l, ur lifted the lid.

[Illustration]

    And all they troubles come trooping out,
    Like hens from a chicken-run might have done.
    For the maiden fancied without a doubt,
    They’d go back in the evening like, one by one.
    But time’s got to settle a few more clocks,
    Afore they troubles goes back to their box.

    Straight, Nathan’l, ’tis near enough
    To make a methody parson swear.
    And every time as I reads such stuff,
    I goes so red as yon moon up there.
    To think of the trouble ur brought on we--
    I reckon I owes my old gal to she.

      NATHAN’L. Is it true, do ee think, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, mebbe not, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee think, Dan’l--she let out the lot?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe not.

      NATHAN’L. Sounds like a fairy story to me.

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe, mebbe.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee believe in fairies, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Can’t be sure as I do, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, I don’t anyway, and that’s a fact.

                          _Enter_ COLOMBINE.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l, be I dreaming or be I cracked?

      NATHAN’L. My goodness, Dan’l, I do believe as she’s a fairy....

      DAN’L. Here, come into the shadow of these trees,
    And give that clacking tongue of yourn a rest.

      NATHAN’L. Oh, this be more wonderful than all the things I ever
          guessed.

      DAN’L. And it means _summat_ that you _may_ depend.

      NATHAN’L. See, where she walks, the grass don’t even bend
    Beneath her feet. She be a fairy, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. I wish you’d hold your clacking tongue, Nathan’l.

                      [COLOMBINE, _hearing a noise, pauses to listen_.

      COLOMBINE. Who’s there? The daylight fades. I cannot see.

      DAN’L. You go.

      NATHAN’L.     No, you.

      DAN’L.                So please you, Miss, ’tis we.

      COLOMBINE. Good evening, Sirs.

      DAN’L.                Our best respects to ee.
    A goodish evening to be sure, but getting dark and cold.
    Time gals like you was safe abed, if I might make so bold.

      COLOMBINE. Old man, the night has but begun.

      DAN’L. The day be done.

      COLOMBINE. The moon has scarcely risen yet.

      DAN’L. The sun have set.

      COLOMBINE. The sun his wandering footsteps stays to greet the crescent moon.
    The nightjar and the nightingale will both be singing soon.

      DAN’L. Us don’t set much store by nightingales in these parts,
            and as for nightjars! Oh lor, us shoots they.
          Give I a linnet now,
          A-sitting on a bough;
          As sings his message to the sun,
          And goes to sleep when day be done,
          Respectable like!

      NATHAN’L. [_Coming forward._]
          Queer things,
          These here rings
          You sees in the grass
          When you pass.
          They say ’tis where Pharisees dances at night!
          Be that right?

      COLOMBINE. Quite right; yet once the circle that you see,
    Saw war and tumult.

      DAN’L.           Lawks-a-mussey me!

      COLOMBINE. The Roman legions camped on yonder brow,
    And built the road you stand on.

      NATHAN’L.                     Did they now!

      COLOMBINE. The sun would sink out yonder in the west,
    And shine upon their helmets.

      DAN’L.                      Well I’m blest!

      COLOMBINE. The very spot where Julius Caesar sat,
    Lies just behind those beeches.

      NATHAN’L.                    Think of that!

      COLOMBINE. In yonder barrow treasures rare lie hid.
    Dig deep to find them.

      DAN’L.               Well I never did!

      NATHAN’L. But when did all this
                Happen, Miss?
                How many years ago,
                I’d like to know?

      COLOMBINE. Roughly two thousand, on this very spot.

      DAN’L. Lor! What a memory you must have got.

      COLOMBINE. [_To_ NATHAN’L.] But tell me please;
    Beneath these trees,
    What travellers come, and whither bound?
    Do still these ancient heights resound
    With martial music and the tramp of men?

      NATHAN’L. Us gets a hurdy-gurdy now and then,
    And once a clown on stilts went through the wood;
    And oh! he could catch pennies, that he could.

      COLOMBINE. But in what fashion do you pass your days?

      NATHAN’L. I kill the time in various sorts of ways.
    Scaring the rooks as settles on the corn;
    Helping the shepherd when the lambs be born.
    Talking to Dan’l about these here rings,
    And wondering about a power of things.
    As don’t concern nobody, I suppose.
    But then, you must do summat, goodness knows.

      COLOMBINE. Of course. ’Tis lonely here without a doubt.
    What are the things you’re wondering about
    To-day?

[Illustration]

      NATHAN’L. Such things as surely never was.
    Such things as surely no one ever does.
    And yet, of nothing, for they moves so fast,
    You finds as you’ve forgotten them at last.
    Just like a dream they passes and be gone.
    Just like a dream they passes....

      COLOMBINE.                      Yes, go on.

      NATHAN’L. Just like a dream, for though I thinks a lot,
    Before they’re rightly thought they’re clean forgot.
    Though somehow, now I sits and talks to you,
    I keeps remembering things I never knew.
    Just like as though somebody slammed a door,
    When you was going where you’d been before;
    Leaving you standing on the further side,
    Wondering at what was happening inside.
    Whether the folk you knew was there or not;
    Whether you really knew, and had forgot;
    Whether you’d been there once when you was small,
    Or whether you was never there at all.
    ’Tis plaguey awkerd, wondering, that it be.
    And now I must be off, I wants my tea.                    [_Exit._

      COLOMBINE. Good-bye. And think sometimes of me.

                           [_Rousing herself from the brown study into
                             which this revelation has thrown her, and
                             addressing_ DAN’L.

    Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. [_Startled._] Eh?

      COLOMBINE. Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. It all depends. Why?

      COLOMBINE. There’s going to be a fight.

      DAN’L. When? Where?

      COLOMBINE. Very soon.
             By the light of the moon.
             On the very stroke of nine.
             All for love of Colombine.

      DAN’L. Shall I fetch a policeman?

      COLOMBINE. A policeman! Dear me, no.

      DAN’L. Who’s going to fight.

      COLOMBINE. Don’t you know?
                             Harlequin and Pierrot.

      DAN’L. Never heard of they.

      COLOMBINE. Won’t it be fun?

      DAN’L. Good fun
                      For the one as gets killed.

      COLOMBINE. But they won’t kill each other. They never do. They’re
    _most_ dependable.

      DAN’L. Have um fought before?

      COLOMBINE. Of course. Hundreds of times.

      DAN’L. Silly young chaps.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. They’re not silly. They’re fighting for me. Don’t you
    understand?

      DAN’L. I fought about a girl once. But only once. It was a long
    time ago.

      COLOMBINE. You’re not romantic. Romance would die if it wasn’t
    for fighting. Romance _is_ fighting.

      DAN’L. Then I’ve had quite enough romance to please me.

      COLOMBINE. All properly constituted love affairs should include
    a fight. Love without fighting is insipid.

      DAN’L. _You_ don’t have to do the fighting. Which of ’em loves
    you the most?

      COLOMBINE. Why, Pierrot, of course.

      DAN’L. Then why don’t you marry him?

      COLOMBINE. And disappoint Harlequin? I couldn’t do that.

      DAN’L. When are you going to decide?

      COLOMBINE. I don’t know. [_On her fingers._] This year, next
    year, some time, never. To-night perhaps.

      DAN’L. One day they’ll get tired of fighting. What then?

      COLOMBINE. Never!

      DAN’L. You’re sure of that?

      COLOMBINE. Oh, yes. Quite sure.

      DAN’L. One of them may get killed.

      COLOMBINE. They wouldn’t be so careless.

      DAN’L. What should you do if one of ’em got killed by accident?

      COLOMBINE. I should be very angry. But you’re very horrid to
    suggest such things. Why don’t you go away?

      DAN’L. Good-bye.

      COLOMBINE. No, stay.

      DAN’L. Well, I’m fond of a fight, I must say.

      COLOMBINE. Hush! They are coming. Quick, behind this tree.

      DAN’L. Anywhere in the background’s good enough for me.

      COLOMBINE. A fight, a fight! And all for love of me.

                    [_The orchestra plays quietly the Soldiers’ Chorus
                        and snatches of other martial refrains. The
                        two watchers betray tense excitement._
                        HARLEQUIN _and_ PIERROT _enter arm in arm.
                        Any differences they may have had are evidently
                        settled._ COLOMBINE _looks on in astonishment_.

[Illustration]

      HARLEQUIN. Mind you, as girls go, Colombine’s one of the best.

      PIERROT. Ah yes.

      HARLEQUIN. But nothing to fight about.

      PIERROT. [_Without conviction._] No.

      HARLEQUIN. And fighting’s going out of fashion. There’s no doubt
    about that.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. The whole trend of modern thought is opposed to it.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. None of the best people do it.

      PIERROT. I suppose not.

      HARLEQUIN. And one must be in the movement.

      PIERROT. Of course.

      HARLEQUIN. Arbitration’s the thing nowadays.

      PIERROT. What’s that?

      HARLEQUIN. Why, you each talk until you’re out of breath, and
    the one with most breath wins.

      PIERROT. [_Taking a deep breath._] That seems a good idea.

      HARLEQUIN. It is.

      PIERROT. But what will Colombine say if we don’t fight? She loves
    to watch us fight.

      HARLEQUIN. My dear chap, we must be firm. Adopt your point of
    view, and stick to it in the face of all opposition.

      COLOMBINE. [_Advancing._] Aren’t you going to fight?

      PIERROT. [_Kindly._] Not to-night.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! Why not?

      HARLEQUIN. Well, we’ve got
                 Other fish to fry,
                 That’s why.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! do fight!

      PIERROT. Not to-night.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, my dear girl, do listen to reason. You will admit,
    I suppose, that the most elementary point about a duel is to spit
    your opponent through the gizzard.

      COLOMBINE. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. Well, I haven’t got a gizzard, and what’s the use of
    trying to spit a man’s gizzard, if he hasn’t got a gizzard to spit?
    You must be reasonable.

      COLOMBINE. How do you know you haven’t got a gizzard?

      HARLEQUIN. We don’t know for certain, we assume.

      PIERROT. You’ve only to look at him to see there isn’t room.

      COLOMBINE. But why the gizzard? What does it matter _where_ you
    spit him so long as you do spit him?

      HARLEQUIN. For heaven’s sake, my dear girl, don’t preach such
    revolutionary doctrines. There is a certain etiquette to be
    observed, even in a battle.

      COLOMBINE. [_After a pause._] But it’s quite simple. You spit
    Pierrot. He’s got a gizzard, I suppose.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. Pierrot consulted a phrenologist....

      PIERROT. Soothsayer!

      HARLEQUIN. Sorry--soothsayer, who said he was born to be hung....

      PIERROT. Hanged!

      HARLEQUIN. Hanged, and so of course, he doesn’t want to run the
    risk of disappointing him.

      COLOMBINE. Very considerate, I’m sure.
    I think you’re absolutely _horrid_, there.               [_Cries._

      HARLEQUIN. [_To_ PIERROT.] Don’t waver, both together.

      HARLEQUIN and PIERROT. We don’t care
          Tuppence what you think or say,
          We talked the matter over, here to-day;
          And arbitration is the only way.

      COLOMBINE. You’re frightened.

      HARLEQUIN. Don’t be silly. Frightened! Me!

      COLOMBINE. Well, who’s your arbitrator going to be?

      HARLEQUIN. [_Taken aback._] Why yes, we must have someone, I
        suppose.
    But who’s to do it?

      PIERROT.          Goodness only knows!
    There’s not a single person within call.

    COLOMBINE. [_Clapping her hands._] Hurrah! You’ll have to fight,
      then, after all.

                       [_There is a pause, during which_ PIERROT _and_
                       HARLEQUIN _look at each other in dismay_.
                       COLOMBINE _on the other hand claps her
                       hands and pirouettes round the stage. Then_
                       HARLEQUIN _sees_ DAN’L _and drags him forward
                       at the same time speaking in asides_.

      HARLEQUIN. What’s your name?

      DAN’L. Much the same
            As it’s always bin,
            Week out, week in,
            This seventy year and more.

      HARLEQUIN. Good! We want you to arbitrate.
    You’re the very man.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey. I’ll do it if I can.

      HARLEQUIN. There’s much gold.
               Wealth untold!
               If you only do
               As I tell you to.

      DAN’L. Fire away!

      HARLEQUIN. Until to-day, Pierrot and I have been in the habit of
    engaging in mortal combat for the hand of Colombine. Owing to the
    fact that up to the present neither has had the decency to get
    killed, and as a result of the wave of anti-militarism that has
    swept over the country, we have decided to fall back on arbitration.
    And you are the arbitrator. You understand?

      DAN’L. No!

      HARLEQUIN. Then you’re very thick.

      DAN’L. You speaks too quick
    And the way you keeps hopping about makes me fair mazed.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. One of us is to marry
    Colombine, and you’ve to decide which it’s to be.
    Do you see?

      DAN’L. No.

      HARLEQUIN. But it’s quite simple.

      DAN’L. Maybe. But how do I know which it’s to be?

      HARLEQUIN. I’ll let you into a secret. It’s me!

      DAN’L. Oh! And if I goes and sez ’tis you,
    What’s yon chap in the white trousers going to do?

      HARLEQUIN. Never mind him. He’s a fool.

      DAN’L. It seems it don’t much matter what I say;
    I’m bound to upset one of ye either way.
    Oh! very well.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Pierrot! Gather round.

                        [_They sit in a semicircle_; COLOMBINE _and_
                          DAN’L _in the centre_.

      DAN’L. I shall catch my death of cold, sitting on this damp
    ground.

                        [_There is silence, each waiting for the other
                          to speak._

      COLOMBINE. You don’t seem very anxious, either of you.

      DAN’L. Who goes first?

      HARLEQUIN. If I don’t say something, and quickly, I shall burst.

      DAN’L. Then you’d best get started. [_Aside._] How long will it take?

      HARLEQUIN. Until it’s ended.

      DAN’L. Cut it short for goodness’ sake.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Let me take you away from these lonely hills.
    Into the heart of the world where lies the Land of Yesterday. There
    are stored all the happy hours that you have known. You shall live
    them all over again, Colombine--every one. I will lead you by secret
    paths, through the dim woods of yesternight until we stand together
    in the sunlight of the days that have been. Walking backward through
    the years, we will collect those dear lost delights, of which only
    the memory remains. From all that has gone before, it shall be yours
    to pick and choose, and no To-morrow shall throw its ominous shade
    before. The past shall deliver up its treasures to your hand; regrets
    shall be ended, and happiness shall be sure. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. No, Harlequin. The road to your Land of Yesterday is
    longer than you know, and there is no going back. Let us still take
    from the past our memories and our dreams, but do not ask for more,
    lest even these be denied.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: THE GATEWAY OF HAPPINESS]

      HARLEQUIN. As you will. Then it is to the future that we must
    turn. Colombine, far from here, set in a desert of hot sand, is a
    crystal, so large, that all the giants of Africa could not stir
    it the thickness of a hair. Peering into its depths, you may read
    your future to the end of time. A day, a week, a year, shall be no
    barrier to the vision of the mind. You may read all the riddles of
    the universe, and there will remain nothing that you do not know. You
    shall see your face as it will be when twice twenty harvest moons
    have waned, and fifty summer suns have set. And I, alone, can point
    you the way. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. You promise much, Harlequin. It may well be that in some
    spot remote from the haunts of men, the Mirror of Fate yet lies hid.
    And you may find it. Who knows! But this, at least, is certain; the
    path will be difficult and the journey long. Would you not tire by
    the way, Harlequin? I think you would. [_Pause._] And, it is not in
    distant deserts I would seek. In the woods of home, hearts may thrill
    to the eloquent silences of the night. [HARLEQUIN _rises_.] All the
    secrets of the world might be ours, did we but care to learn the
    simple language of the nightingale. Across the moonlight, the shadows
    of the branches trace unforgettable things. Great secrets tremble on
    the lips of the leaves, and mortals grope vainly in the daylight for
    things seen most plainly in the dark.

      DAN’L. [_Coughing to draw attention to himself._]
    I’ve allus noticed, in whatever parts I med ha’ bin,
    A maid in love have allus got a fairish yarn to spin.
    And in whatever parts I’ve bin, I’ve allus noticed too,
    The foolish lads do take it all for gospel, that um do.
    But though I’ve kept good notice in whatever parts I was,
    I’ve never heard a maid to spin a yarn like this un does.
    Ur be a marvel, that ur be; I hope as ur won’t try
    When ur’s tired of you two fellows here, to spin no yarns to I;
    For fools be mostly biggest fools when um be old and grey.
    And if I went along o’ she, what _ud_ my missus say.
    Next man?

      COLOMBINE. Come, Pierrot!

      PIERROT. [_With an effort._] Colombine!

      COLOMBINE. Yes, Pierrot.

      HARLEQUIN. Go on!

      DAN’L. Let’s hear what you’ve got to say, young fellow.

      PIERROT. There is nothing to say.

      COLOMBINE. Nothing to say!

      PIERROT. Save that I love you, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. And is that so small a thing, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. But I have nothing to offer you, nothing.

      COLOMBINE. [_Softly._] Save yourself.

      HARLEQUIN. I have always said that Pierrot was master of sounding
    silences. The sweetest singer of unsung songs, his eloquent nothings
    go shrieking through the void. He scorns to desecrate the virgin
    purity of his foolscap with the written word. What love is that which
    dare not tell its love? Come, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. See, Harlequin, here is a beech nut. You shake it, yet
    there is no sound. Is it full? Is it empty?

      HARLEQUIN. Who can say?

      DAN’L. Likewise, young Nathan’l he picks up a match-box last week,
    and throws it away because there was no sound when he rattles en
    [_To_ HARLEQUIN.] And what do you think?

      HARLEQUIN. I couldn’t say.

      DAN’L. It was so full all the time as not to rattle at all.

      HARLEQUIN. [_Scornfully._] Matches! ye gods! Let’s talk of cucumbers,
    Or shame the glory of this summer night
    With tales of warming-pans.
    Has no one here a button-hook,
    With which to probe the vast unsounded deeps
    [_To_ DAN’L.] Of thy poor addled brain.
    It yet may be,
    In some uncharted corner of the void
    That passes for thy mind,
    We find a collar-stud.
    Farewell!                                                 [_Exit._

      DAN’L. Well, he won’t come back again, that I will be bound,
    And as I be catching my death of cold, sitting on this damp ground,
    I’d best be moving. [_Rises._] Ugh! Good-night to ee.

      PIERROT. Good-night!

      COLOMBINE. [_Aside to_ DAN’L.] And, Mr. Arbitrator, if you see
    Your friend Nathan’l, say that Pierrot
    Owes more to him than he will ever know. [_Exit_ DAN’L.

      COLOMBINE. They have gone!

      PIERROT. Ah!

      COLOMBINE. And the night draws on.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      COLOMBINE. You are sad. Why are you sad, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. I cannot tell.

      COLOMBINE. And you are cold. Is it the night air?

      PIERROT. The wind-swept wold
    Is a street of gold,
    So my lady be walking there.

      COLOMBINE. Yet you are sad. See, they have gone and will not
    come again.

      PIERROT. So love may vanish too,
    And of his chain no link remain
    To tell the way he flew.

      COLOMBINE. Love, as the skylark, soars into that Heaven where’t
    fain would be.

      PIERROT. And singing still, returns. Time was when you, with
    Harlequin, would revel till the cold grey dawn came in.

      COLOMBINE. Light loves sometime were pleasant, but to-night the
    face of love seems changed. No more will stray this wandering heart
    of mine.

      PIERROT. Are you not sorry, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. Sorry for what, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. For loss of Harlequin.

      COLOMBINE. Harlequin is very clever but he talks of what he does
    not know, and promises what is not his to give. Cleverness is not
    everything, Pierrot. The mind is like a garden full of flowers, but
        The heart is a little house,
        With windows facing southerly;
        By which a pathway winds.
        And there, behind the blinds,
        We sit and wait,
        Watching, waiting for what?
        We know not.

    The garden is a pleasant place in summer, but when it is winter, we
    seek the fireside of the little house.

      PIERROT. Yet you are fond of gardens and pretty flowers, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. What flowers grow
          In your garden, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. My garden is full of the flowers,
          My mother planted for me;
          Curious, old-world flowers,
          Thyme, lavender, rosemary.
          Planted in days gone by.
          And, though no gardener I,
          As the shadows fall, I tend them all;
          Watering, pruning there.
          Am I happy in my lot?
          I know not.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. And there is the little house, Pierrot.

      PIERROT. Ah, yes there is the little house.
          Do you remember when
          You peeped through the pane, and then
          Went on your way again?
          Out of my sight, although,
          I beckoned you as you passed,
          And sat at my window mournfully.
          But you came again at last.
          And, seeing you come, I said;
          “The flowers in my garden are dead,
          So will she have no more of me.”

    COLOMBINE. I am knocking at the door, Pierrot.
          Knocking and waiting there,
          For the sound of a step on the stair.
          Will you open to me, Pierrot?

                                [PIERROT’S _answer may be taken in the
                                  affirmative. As they sit together, it
                                  grows dark._

[Illustration]

      PIERROT. [_Rising._] Come dear, and let us go,
    Together, hand in hand,
    Into that sun-lit land,
    Where life and love are things inseparable.
    Where, beneath cloudless skies,
    The happy are the wise,
    And none reprove the glory of a love they may not understand.

                                                     [_Exit together._
                          [_It becomes quite dark_: DAN’L _and an_ OLD
                            MAN _pass slowly across the stage, carrying
                            lanterns, and peering cautiously into the
                            blackness of the night_.

      THE OLD MAN. You was dreaming, Dan’l. That’s about the size of it.

      DAN’L. And I tells ee I wur as wide awake as you be. Us had been
    sitting over-long by the clump, and all of a sudden I looks up and
    sees a fairy. “Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l,” I sez, “be I dreaming or
    be I cracked?”

                              [_They pass off, and the curtain falls._


                                FINIS

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                             OTHER VERSES




                            THE MARIONETTE


        Man is merely a marionette
          On invisible wires suspended.
        And it’s just as well he shouldn’t forget
            That Fate the showman is in the wings,
            Working the business and pulling the strings
        Till his turn is over and ended.

        Man is merely a figure on strings,
          By the glare of the footlights blinded.
        And the wonderful way he dances and sings
            Is not unlikely to fill his mind
            With a great contempt for the Power behind,
        Till suddenly he’s reminded.

        Man is the cream of an idle jest,
          A smile on the face of sorrow.
        A sad peculiar figure at best;
            Willing to sacrifice every day,
            Breaking his heart in the hope of play
        On a problematical morrow.




                          A LETTER FROM HOME


        I’ve a letter from home to-day;
        A letter from home to say
        That they’re cutting the trees in the Priory Wood,
        That lambing is over and crops are good.
        Quite the usual thing, be it understood,
        Is my letter from home, to-day.

        I’ve a letter from home, to-day;
        A letter from far away,
        Bidding me ever to bear in mind
        The dear old friends I have left behind.
        But I’m not of the quickly forgetting kind,
        Dear letter from home, to-day!

        In my letter from home, to-day;
        Is a postscript, just to say
        “No doubt you’ll be very much grieved to hear
        That the girl who stayed at the Grange last year,
        Is dead, and was yesterday buried here.”
        And the world has ended, to-day.




                           THE EXPLANATION


                How do I know I love you?
                Why, because
                When you’re away, d’ye see,
                I kind o’ wanders lonesome like
                An’ frets,
                ’Cause you’re not there with me.
                An’ when I meet you by the stile
                At night,
                And not a soul to see,
                I scarce durst speak to you because
                You’re you, an’ I’m just me.




                              MEMORANDA


                In your Book of Memory,
                Set aside no page for me.
                Do not write our friendship there,
                But, if you’ve the time to spare,
                Scribble just this hurried line:
                “He was once a friend of mine.”

                Blot it very carefully,
                Turn the page that none may see.
                Life goes singing down the way
                Different ballads every day.
                Other pages open fair,
                Set new tales of friendship there.

                And the day will come maybe,
                When that hurried line of me;
                Seen by chance a moment’s space,
                Will recall a vanished face,
                And a memory sweeter than
                Many written pages can.




                      LOVE, LAUGHTER, AND AFTER


            The ruinous cottage, the broken latch;
            The cold stone floor and the dripping thatch.
            The ripe red lips of the girl who stands
            Holding her lover’s hands.

            The gay Casino, the fancy ball;
            The twinkling lights of the crowded hall.
            The cool sweet air of the terrace dim,
            Love and laughter and--him.

            The pitiful pageant that follows soon;
            The music hall and the cheap saloon.
            The sad procession, the coffee stall.
            The river that ends it all.




                             TH’ COORTIN’


                ’Tis just about a wik ago,
                  Or mebbe two, or theresabout,
                As I axed Kate why ur an’ Joe
                  Was seed together waalking out;
                Whenas, fur nigh upon a year,
                ’Twur I as had been coortin’ ur.

                “Why, laws-a-mussey, Bill,” ur sez,
                  “Fur certain sure ye must allow
                Us two caan’t alluz spend our days
                  The same as us be doin’ now.
                Ye’d better wed wi’ one ye doan’t
                Than waalk wi’ one ye do, as woan’t.”

                I cudden zackly understand
                  What ’twur as she was drivin’ at,
                Until I cotched ur by the hand
                  And took a peep ’erneath ur hat.
                Wur what I see surprised I so,
                  I gi’ed ur kiss, an’ whispered low:
                “Ye’d better wed the feller who
                Has alluz bin in luv wi’ you.”
                And that’s just what ur means to do.




                              AGREEMENT

                    Oyez! Oyez! Behold we state
                    The rules of this our Syndicate.


              Let it be granted first of all,
              That you are not so young and small
              As foolish people would suppose,
              From your long hair and shorter clothes.

              Item the second, please agree
              To just the opposite in me.
              For would the wisest man alive
              Imagine I was twenty-five?

              This done, folk cannot make a fuss,
              Or say that we’re preposterous.
              For you become, as all may see,
              A chaperone in charge of me.

              Thirdly, this reservation’s made,
              The Syndicate’s too old and staid
              To ride (though you’ll object no doubt)
              In swinging boat and roundabout.

              Fourthly, the world’s a dear old place,
              So always keep a smiling face.
              It suits you best, and as to that,
              So does pink chiffon in your hat.

              Lastly, lest envious folk combine
              To wreck your Syndicate, and mine,
              My autograph is here affixed,
              Written in blood and water mixed.

       _P.S._ It may not look like blood to you
              But recollect my blood is blue.




                             THE BURYIN’


                The mists be on the river bed,
                The roses all be gone;
                And here be I, about to die,
                Wi’ harvest coming on.
                Dear Lord, I’ve trapsed some weary miles,
                I’ll be main glad to rest awhiles.

                The folk’ll soon be in the fields,
                A-getting in the grain.
                For most of those, the time I’ve chose
                Be awkerd in the main.
                Though not so bad, ’tis sure, for they
                As be a-working by the day.

                September be a better month
                For all the carter men;
                And when I die don’t signify,
                So let I bide till then.
                The wagons’ll be standing by,
                And there’ll be time to bury I.




                          A ZONG TO ZING-OH!


            When the zun beyond the Beacon be a-zettin’
            And everything’s as quiet as can be,
            By the gate to varmur’s meddy,
            That old gate zo vurm and zteddy,
            You be pretty zure uv vindin’ Jim and me.

            When the mists along the valley be uprisin’
            And the nightingale’s a-zingin’ in the tree;
            When the peewits be a-zquawkin’
            Uz don’t waste no time a-talkin’
            Time’s a vasty zight too short sez Jim an’ me

            With the honeyzuckle zcent zo thick as treacle,
            And the chestnut blossoms droppin’ onto we;
            As us zets zo close together,
            Why zometimes I wonders whether
            Jim ull zet that close in Paradise to me.

            When the clocks down in the village be a-strikin’
            And darkness comes a-creepin’ up the lea,
            Then, though us be zeldom ready,
            Us must leave old varmur’s meddy,
            Or the volk ull all be wonderin’ where us be.




                                 SONG


            Long ago,
            (How long ago I really don’t know;)
            A kingfisher lived in a valley of green,
            The finest kingfisher that ever was seen--
            In that little green valley I know.

            Silent and slow
            All in a row, buttercups grow.
            One day the kingfisher selected his queen,
            And the bride wore a costume of purple and green
            ’Neath the willows that stand in a row.

            Heigho!
            (As the years go, still the streams flow)
            The whole of this summer they haven’t been seen,
            And a wood-pecker reigns in that valley serene.
            Where they’ve gone to I really don’t know.




                              PHILOSOPHY


                When I was young, in days gone by,
                I smoked Wild Woodbines on the sly.
                They made me ill, but what of that?
                ’Twas nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                If I had shirked that pallid brow
                I couldn’t smoke Havanas now.

                The only girl I ever kissed,
                Both found and left an optimist.
                She jilted me, but even that
                Was nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                I’ve such a cozy little den,
                And know a lot of married men.

                And now, although I’m getting stout,
                And though my hair is falling out,
                And people call me old and fat,
                There’s nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                Although I am a perfect fright,
                I don’t look bad by candle light.




                               FORFEITS


                You fail to catch the trencher spun
                And, later, when the game is done,
                The lady who collects the fees
                Demands a forfeit, if you please.
                You find a penny, grimed and black,
                And hope that you may get it back.

                You sit in speechless misery,
                And wonder what your fate will be,
                Until, within that giggling ring,
                You have to claim the wretched thing;
                Then sally forth upon your quest,
                To kiss the one you love the best.

                You don’t appreciate the fun,
                But curb a wild desire to run;
                Then seek a matron staid and stout,
                And drag the willing victim out;
                Because, of course, it wouldn’t do
                To kiss the girl you wanted to.




                             THE REVIVAL


            Take me away, for I will see no more;
            It was but yesterday I saw the play before,
            The day on which my dear and I were wed--
            Your mother, child--your mother who is dead.
            Why did you bring me here to see a play
            Which she and I saw only yesterday?




                         A PATRON OF THE ARTS


                    I knew a lady once I did,
                    Who lived away at Pontypridd;
                    She liked my verses very much,
                    And said I had the lyric touch.

                    She used to ask me round to lunch,
                    And say I ought to edit “Punch,”
                    As Owen S. and Francis B.,
                    Were amateurs compared to me.

                    Last week I met her in a batch
                    Of lunatics at Colney Hatch,
                    And heard she always spoke of me
                    As far surpassing Calverley.




                              CRITICISM


                A simple poet on a time,
                Resolved to write a simple rhyme.
                His verse was pleasing to the ear;
                He also made his meaning clear.

                The critics glanced at it, and said
                Such rubbish they had never read.
                A point on which they did agree,
                With touching unanimity.

                The simple poet took his lay,
                And turned it round the other way.
                Shuffled the sentences about,
                And took a dozen commas out.

                The critics took the volume, and
                Read, marked--and failed to understand.
                Then fell upon their stomachs flat,
                This prodigy to marvel at.




                           TREASON AND PLOT


                When I am very, very rich,
                  And very famous, too,
                I’ll take a cab to Regent’s Park,
                  And walk into the Zoo
                With quite a consequential air,
                For I shall be the richest there.

                And in a lordly way I’ll take
                  A shilling from my purse,
                And buy the biggest rattle-snake
                  To carry home to Nurse,
                And, as she’s very short of breath,
                Perhaps ’twill frighten her to death.




                        THE POPPY AND THE POET


                Like poppies in the golden corn,
                  The poet’s race is run;
                Each strives alike to gain the ear;
                  The poppy from the sun
                Borrows more radiance than gold--
                A poet’s much the same, I’m told.

                But still these differences appear
                  When everything is said;
                The poet’s leaves, I greatly fear,
                  Are very seldom read.
                Poppies but borrow from the sun--
                A poet will from anyone.




                              EL DORADO


                He sought it through the golden isles
                Of Once Upon a Time.
                In fabled fields of Might Have Been
                He heard its distant chime.
                He saw, mid Dreamland’s mystic glades,
                Its turrets from afar;
                And found it in the valley, where
                The deepest shadows are.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


The Project Gutenberg eBook of Colombine a fantasy
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Colombine a fantasy
        and other verses

Author: Reginald Arkell

Illustrator: Frederick Carter

Release date: June 19, 2025 [eBook #76341]

Language: English

Original publication: London: Benn and Cronin, Ltd, 1911

Credits: Carol Brown, Charlene Taylor and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***

Transcriber’s Note:

Words and phrases in italics are surrounded by underscores, _like
this_.

“ro” was changed to “to” ... desire to run ...




  COLOMBINE

  A FANTASY

  AND OTHER VERSES




  _LONDON_
  BENN AND CRONIN, LTD.
  CRAVEN HOUSE, KINGSWAY, W.C.
  1911




       _Copyright: Entered at Stationers’ Hall, December 1911.
                  Acting Rights strictly Reserved._




[Illustration: COLOMBINE.]




[Illustration:

  COLOMBINE
  A FANTASY

  BY REGINALD ARKELL

  WITH SOME DRAWINGS
  BY FREDERICK CARTER.]




[Illustration]




                            AUTHOR’S NOTE

“COLOMBINE” was first performed at Clavier Hall, Hanover Square, W.,
on Thursday, 7th December 1911, with the following cast:

    Dan’l (an old man)         MR. B. BUTLER.
    Nathan’l (a boy)           MR. A. E. FILMER.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Harlequin                  MR. REGINALD BACH.
    Pierrot                    MR. MARK HANNAM.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Colombine                  MISS ETHEL EVANS.

    The play was produced by MR. A. E. FILMER.


                                SCENE

  A ROMAN CAMP on the summit of Cissbury Beacon in the South Downs.
     A fairy ring occupies the foreground. All round are beech trees.
     The time is evening.




[Illustration]




                               PROLOGUE


    There are circles of green upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the Pharisees dance--so they say;
    Revelling merrily round it until
    The dawn over Ditchling is gray.
    And travellers lost upon Cissbury Hill--
    (Pixy-led folk who stray)
    Seated on toad-stools, with fairy folk sup,
    _But here, in Haymarket, the roadway is up_.

    There are circles of beech upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the leaves of a lifetime decay;
    Hiding the memories, lingering still,
    Of Rome’s indisputable sway.
    And under the beech-leaves of Cissbury Hill,
    Throbs the heart of the downland alway.
    While dreaming of chieftains and warriors in woad,
    _You’re lighting your pipe in the Charing Cross Road_.




[Illustration]




                              COLOMBINE


     _An old man and a boy are seen talking; both are labourers.
                 The old man, who is seated, speaks_:

      DAN’L. Well, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. There’s little use in stopping here much longer.

      NATHAN’L. Not as I can see.

      DAN’L. Like my old eyes, the sun don’t grow no stronger.

      NATHAN’L. And I wants my tea.

      DAN’L. Do ee, lad?

      NATHAN’L. Ah, main bad.

      DAN’L. Which means ’tis time to go, I reckons.

      NATHAN’L. That’s a proposition as I seconds.

      DAN’L. Come on then, let’s be moving. Tip us yer daddle.

      NATHAN’L. All of a sudden you be in a mortal caddle.
    I wants to hear the finish of that yarn
    As you was spinning down at Tranter’s Barn.
    A peck of troubles it was all about.
    I wants to know how everything turned out.

      DAN’L. You wants your tea, that’s what you wants, my son.

      NATHAN’L. There’s time enough for tea when you be done.

      DAN’L. Well, though ’tis little enough I read,
    I sid in a story-book years ago,
    (Though mind, Nathan’l, there beant no need
    To be letting on as I told ee so)
    That all the troubles as worrits a man
    Was locked in a box when the world began.

    And there no doubt they’d ha’ bid till now,
    If the dummel soul as had got the key,
    Hadn’t got mixed up with a maid somehow
    And gone and handed it over to she.
    And what do ee fancy the maiden did?
    Darn me, Nathan’l, ur lifted the lid.

[Illustration]

    And all they troubles come trooping out,
    Like hens from a chicken-run might have done.
    For the maiden fancied without a doubt,
    They’d go back in the evening like, one by one.
    But time’s got to settle a few more clocks,
    Afore they troubles goes back to their box.

    Straight, Nathan’l, ’tis near enough
    To make a methody parson swear.
    And every time as I reads such stuff,
    I goes so red as yon moon up there.
    To think of the trouble ur brought on we--
    I reckon I owes my old gal to she.

      NATHAN’L. Is it true, do ee think, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, mebbe not, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee think, Dan’l--she let out the lot?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe not.

      NATHAN’L. Sounds like a fairy story to me.

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe, mebbe.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee believe in fairies, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Can’t be sure as I do, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, I don’t anyway, and that’s a fact.

                          _Enter_ COLOMBINE.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l, be I dreaming or be I cracked?

      NATHAN’L. My goodness, Dan’l, I do believe as she’s a fairy....

      DAN’L. Here, come into the shadow of these trees,
    And give that clacking tongue of yourn a rest.

      NATHAN’L. Oh, this be more wonderful than all the things I ever
          guessed.

      DAN’L. And it means _summat_ that you _may_ depend.

      NATHAN’L. See, where she walks, the grass don’t even bend
    Beneath her feet. She be a fairy, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. I wish you’d hold your clacking tongue, Nathan’l.

                      [COLOMBINE, _hearing a noise, pauses to listen_.

      COLOMBINE. Who’s there? The daylight fades. I cannot see.

      DAN’L. You go.

      NATHAN’L.     No, you.

      DAN’L.                So please you, Miss, ’tis we.

      COLOMBINE. Good evening, Sirs.

      DAN’L.                Our best respects to ee.
    A goodish evening to be sure, but getting dark and cold.
    Time gals like you was safe abed, if I might make so bold.

      COLOMBINE. Old man, the night has but begun.

      DAN’L. The day be done.

      COLOMBINE. The moon has scarcely risen yet.

      DAN’L. The sun have set.

      COLOMBINE. The sun his wandering footsteps stays to greet the crescent moon.
    The nightjar and the nightingale will both be singing soon.

      DAN’L. Us don’t set much store by nightingales in these parts,
            and as for nightjars! Oh lor, us shoots they.
          Give I a linnet now,
          A-sitting on a bough;
          As sings his message to the sun,
          And goes to sleep when day be done,
          Respectable like!

      NATHAN’L. [_Coming forward._]
          Queer things,
          These here rings
          You sees in the grass
          When you pass.
          They say ’tis where Pharisees dances at night!
          Be that right?

      COLOMBINE. Quite right; yet once the circle that you see,
    Saw war and tumult.

      DAN’L.           Lawks-a-mussey me!

      COLOMBINE. The Roman legions camped on yonder brow,
    And built the road you stand on.

      NATHAN’L.                     Did they now!

      COLOMBINE. The sun would sink out yonder in the west,
    And shine upon their helmets.

      DAN’L.                      Well I’m blest!

      COLOMBINE. The very spot where Julius Caesar sat,
    Lies just behind those beeches.

      NATHAN’L.                    Think of that!

      COLOMBINE. In yonder barrow treasures rare lie hid.
    Dig deep to find them.

      DAN’L.               Well I never did!

      NATHAN’L. But when did all this
                Happen, Miss?
                How many years ago,
                I’d like to know?

      COLOMBINE. Roughly two thousand, on this very spot.

      DAN’L. Lor! What a memory you must have got.

      COLOMBINE. [_To_ NATHAN’L.] But tell me please;
    Beneath these trees,
    What travellers come, and whither bound?
    Do still these ancient heights resound
    With martial music and the tramp of men?

      NATHAN’L. Us gets a hurdy-gurdy now and then,
    And once a clown on stilts went through the wood;
    And oh! he could catch pennies, that he could.

      COLOMBINE. But in what fashion do you pass your days?

      NATHAN’L. I kill the time in various sorts of ways.
    Scaring the rooks as settles on the corn;
    Helping the shepherd when the lambs be born.
    Talking to Dan’l about these here rings,
    And wondering about a power of things.
    As don’t concern nobody, I suppose.
    But then, you must do summat, goodness knows.

      COLOMBINE. Of course. ’Tis lonely here without a doubt.
    What are the things you’re wondering about
    To-day?

[Illustration]

      NATHAN’L. Such things as surely never was.
    Such things as surely no one ever does.
    And yet, of nothing, for they moves so fast,
    You finds as you’ve forgotten them at last.
    Just like a dream they passes and be gone.
    Just like a dream they passes....

      COLOMBINE.                      Yes, go on.

      NATHAN’L. Just like a dream, for though I thinks a lot,
    Before they’re rightly thought they’re clean forgot.
    Though somehow, now I sits and talks to you,
    I keeps remembering things I never knew.
    Just like as though somebody slammed a door,
    When you was going where you’d been before;
    Leaving you standing on the further side,
    Wondering at what was happening inside.
    Whether the folk you knew was there or not;
    Whether you really knew, and had forgot;
    Whether you’d been there once when you was small,
    Or whether you was never there at all.
    ’Tis plaguey awkerd, wondering, that it be.
    And now I must be off, I wants my tea.                    [_Exit._

      COLOMBINE. Good-bye. And think sometimes of me.

                           [_Rousing herself from the brown study into
                             which this revelation has thrown her, and
                             addressing_ DAN’L.

    Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. [_Startled._] Eh?

      COLOMBINE. Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. It all depends. Why?

      COLOMBINE. There’s going to be a fight.

      DAN’L. When? Where?

      COLOMBINE. Very soon.
             By the light of the moon.
             On the very stroke of nine.
             All for love of Colombine.

      DAN’L. Shall I fetch a policeman?

      COLOMBINE. A policeman! Dear me, no.

      DAN’L. Who’s going to fight.

      COLOMBINE. Don’t you know?
                             Harlequin and Pierrot.

      DAN’L. Never heard of they.

      COLOMBINE. Won’t it be fun?

      DAN’L. Good fun
                      For the one as gets killed.

      COLOMBINE. But they won’t kill each other. They never do. They’re
    _most_ dependable.

      DAN’L. Have um fought before?

      COLOMBINE. Of course. Hundreds of times.

      DAN’L. Silly young chaps.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. They’re not silly. They’re fighting for me. Don’t you
    understand?

      DAN’L. I fought about a girl once. But only once. It was a long
    time ago.

      COLOMBINE. You’re not romantic. Romance would die if it wasn’t
    for fighting. Romance _is_ fighting.

      DAN’L. Then I’ve had quite enough romance to please me.

      COLOMBINE. All properly constituted love affairs should include
    a fight. Love without fighting is insipid.

      DAN’L. _You_ don’t have to do the fighting. Which of ’em loves
    you the most?

      COLOMBINE. Why, Pierrot, of course.

      DAN’L. Then why don’t you marry him?

      COLOMBINE. And disappoint Harlequin? I couldn’t do that.

      DAN’L. When are you going to decide?

      COLOMBINE. I don’t know. [_On her fingers._] This year, next
    year, some time, never. To-night perhaps.

      DAN’L. One day they’ll get tired of fighting. What then?

      COLOMBINE. Never!

      DAN’L. You’re sure of that?

      COLOMBINE. Oh, yes. Quite sure.

      DAN’L. One of them may get killed.

      COLOMBINE. They wouldn’t be so careless.

      DAN’L. What should you do if one of ’em got killed by accident?

      COLOMBINE. I should be very angry. But you’re very horrid to
    suggest such things. Why don’t you go away?

      DAN’L. Good-bye.

      COLOMBINE. No, stay.

      DAN’L. Well, I’m fond of a fight, I must say.

      COLOMBINE. Hush! They are coming. Quick, behind this tree.

      DAN’L. Anywhere in the background’s good enough for me.

      COLOMBINE. A fight, a fight! And all for love of me.

                    [_The orchestra plays quietly the Soldiers’ Chorus
                        and snatches of other martial refrains. The
                        two watchers betray tense excitement._
                        HARLEQUIN _and_ PIERROT _enter arm in arm.
                        Any differences they may have had are evidently
                        settled._ COLOMBINE _looks on in astonishment_.

[Illustration]

      HARLEQUIN. Mind you, as girls go, Colombine’s one of the best.

      PIERROT. Ah yes.

      HARLEQUIN. But nothing to fight about.

      PIERROT. [_Without conviction._] No.

      HARLEQUIN. And fighting’s going out of fashion. There’s no doubt
    about that.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. The whole trend of modern thought is opposed to it.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. None of the best people do it.

      PIERROT. I suppose not.

      HARLEQUIN. And one must be in the movement.

      PIERROT. Of course.

      HARLEQUIN. Arbitration’s the thing nowadays.

      PIERROT. What’s that?

      HARLEQUIN. Why, you each talk until you’re out of breath, and
    the one with most breath wins.

      PIERROT. [_Taking a deep breath._] That seems a good idea.

      HARLEQUIN. It is.

      PIERROT. But what will Colombine say if we don’t fight? She loves
    to watch us fight.

      HARLEQUIN. My dear chap, we must be firm. Adopt your point of
    view, and stick to it in the face of all opposition.

      COLOMBINE. [_Advancing._] Aren’t you going to fight?

      PIERROT. [_Kindly._] Not to-night.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! Why not?

      HARLEQUIN. Well, we’ve got
                 Other fish to fry,
                 That’s why.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! do fight!

      PIERROT. Not to-night.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, my dear girl, do listen to reason. You will admit,
    I suppose, that the most elementary point about a duel is to spit
    your opponent through the gizzard.

      COLOMBINE. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. Well, I haven’t got a gizzard, and what’s the use of
    trying to spit a man’s gizzard, if he hasn’t got a gizzard to spit?
    You must be reasonable.

      COLOMBINE. How do you know you haven’t got a gizzard?

      HARLEQUIN. We don’t know for certain, we assume.

      PIERROT. You’ve only to look at him to see there isn’t room.

      COLOMBINE. But why the gizzard? What does it matter _where_ you
    spit him so long as you do spit him?

      HARLEQUIN. For heaven’s sake, my dear girl, don’t preach such
    revolutionary doctrines. There is a certain etiquette to be
    observed, even in a battle.

      COLOMBINE. [_After a pause._] But it’s quite simple. You spit
    Pierrot. He’s got a gizzard, I suppose.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. Pierrot consulted a phrenologist....

      PIERROT. Soothsayer!

      HARLEQUIN. Sorry--soothsayer, who said he was born to be hung....

      PIERROT. Hanged!

      HARLEQUIN. Hanged, and so of course, he doesn’t want to run the
    risk of disappointing him.

      COLOMBINE. Very considerate, I’m sure.
    I think you’re absolutely _horrid_, there.               [_Cries._

      HARLEQUIN. [_To_ PIERROT.] Don’t waver, both together.

      HARLEQUIN and PIERROT. We don’t care
          Tuppence what you think or say,
          We talked the matter over, here to-day;
          And arbitration is the only way.

      COLOMBINE. You’re frightened.

      HARLEQUIN. Don’t be silly. Frightened! Me!

      COLOMBINE. Well, who’s your arbitrator going to be?

      HARLEQUIN. [_Taken aback._] Why yes, we must have someone, I
        suppose.
    But who’s to do it?

      PIERROT.          Goodness only knows!
    There’s not a single person within call.

    COLOMBINE. [_Clapping her hands._] Hurrah! You’ll have to fight,
      then, after all.

                       [_There is a pause, during which_ PIERROT _and_
                       HARLEQUIN _look at each other in dismay_.
                       COLOMBINE _on the other hand claps her
                       hands and pirouettes round the stage. Then_
                       HARLEQUIN _sees_ DAN’L _and drags him forward
                       at the same time speaking in asides_.

      HARLEQUIN. What’s your name?

      DAN’L. Much the same
            As it’s always bin,
            Week out, week in,
            This seventy year and more.

      HARLEQUIN. Good! We want you to arbitrate.
    You’re the very man.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey. I’ll do it if I can.

      HARLEQUIN. There’s much gold.
               Wealth untold!
               If you only do
               As I tell you to.

      DAN’L. Fire away!

      HARLEQUIN. Until to-day, Pierrot and I have been in the habit of
    engaging in mortal combat for the hand of Colombine. Owing to the
    fact that up to the present neither has had the decency to get
    killed, and as a result of the wave of anti-militarism that has
    swept over the country, we have decided to fall back on arbitration.
    And you are the arbitrator. You understand?

      DAN’L. No!

      HARLEQUIN. Then you’re very thick.

      DAN’L. You speaks too quick
    And the way you keeps hopping about makes me fair mazed.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. One of us is to marry
    Colombine, and you’ve to decide which it’s to be.
    Do you see?

      DAN’L. No.

      HARLEQUIN. But it’s quite simple.

      DAN’L. Maybe. But how do I know which it’s to be?

      HARLEQUIN. I’ll let you into a secret. It’s me!

      DAN’L. Oh! And if I goes and sez ’tis you,
    What’s yon chap in the white trousers going to do?

      HARLEQUIN. Never mind him. He’s a fool.

      DAN’L. It seems it don’t much matter what I say;
    I’m bound to upset one of ye either way.
    Oh! very well.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Pierrot! Gather round.

                        [_They sit in a semicircle_; COLOMBINE _and_
                          DAN’L _in the centre_.

      DAN’L. I shall catch my death of cold, sitting on this damp
    ground.

                        [_There is silence, each waiting for the other
                          to speak._

      COLOMBINE. You don’t seem very anxious, either of you.

      DAN’L. Who goes first?

      HARLEQUIN. If I don’t say something, and quickly, I shall burst.

      DAN’L. Then you’d best get started. [_Aside._] How long will it take?

      HARLEQUIN. Until it’s ended.

      DAN’L. Cut it short for goodness’ sake.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Let me take you away from these lonely hills.
    Into the heart of the world where lies the Land of Yesterday. There
    are stored all the happy hours that you have known. You shall live
    them all over again, Colombine--every one. I will lead you by secret
    paths, through the dim woods of yesternight until we stand together
    in the sunlight of the days that have been. Walking backward through
    the years, we will collect those dear lost delights, of which only
    the memory remains. From all that has gone before, it shall be yours
    to pick and choose, and no To-morrow shall throw its ominous shade
    before. The past shall deliver up its treasures to your hand; regrets
    shall be ended, and happiness shall be sure. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. No, Harlequin. The road to your Land of Yesterday is
    longer than you know, and there is no going back. Let us still take
    from the past our memories and our dreams, but do not ask for more,
    lest even these be denied.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: THE GATEWAY OF HAPPINESS]

      HARLEQUIN. As you will. Then it is to the future that we must
    turn. Colombine, far from here, set in a desert of hot sand, is a
    crystal, so large, that all the giants of Africa could not stir
    it the thickness of a hair. Peering into its depths, you may read
    your future to the end of time. A day, a week, a year, shall be no
    barrier to the vision of the mind. You may read all the riddles of
    the universe, and there will remain nothing that you do not know. You
    shall see your face as it will be when twice twenty harvest moons
    have waned, and fifty summer suns have set. And I, alone, can point
    you the way. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. You promise much, Harlequin. It may well be that in some
    spot remote from the haunts of men, the Mirror of Fate yet lies hid.
    And you may find it. Who knows! But this, at least, is certain; the
    path will be difficult and the journey long. Would you not tire by
    the way, Harlequin? I think you would. [_Pause._] And, it is not in
    distant deserts I would seek. In the woods of home, hearts may thrill
    to the eloquent silences of the night. [HARLEQUIN _rises_.] All the
    secrets of the world might be ours, did we but care to learn the
    simple language of the nightingale. Across the moonlight, the shadows
    of the branches trace unforgettable things. Great secrets tremble on
    the lips of the leaves, and mortals grope vainly in the daylight for
    things seen most plainly in the dark.

      DAN’L. [_Coughing to draw attention to himself._]
    I’ve allus noticed, in whatever parts I med ha’ bin,
    A maid in love have allus got a fairish yarn to spin.
    And in whatever parts I’ve bin, I’ve allus noticed too,
    The foolish lads do take it all for gospel, that um do.
    But though I’ve kept good notice in whatever parts I was,
    I’ve never heard a maid to spin a yarn like this un does.
    Ur be a marvel, that ur be; I hope as ur won’t try
    When ur’s tired of you two fellows here, to spin no yarns to I;
    For fools be mostly biggest fools when um be old and grey.
    And if I went along o’ she, what _ud_ my missus say.
    Next man?

      COLOMBINE. Come, Pierrot!

      PIERROT. [_With an effort._] Colombine!

      COLOMBINE. Yes, Pierrot.

      HARLEQUIN. Go on!

      DAN’L. Let’s hear what you’ve got to say, young fellow.

      PIERROT. There is nothing to say.

      COLOMBINE. Nothing to say!

      PIERROT. Save that I love you, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. And is that so small a thing, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. But I have nothing to offer you, nothing.

      COLOMBINE. [_Softly._] Save yourself.

      HARLEQUIN. I have always said that Pierrot was master of sounding
    silences. The sweetest singer of unsung songs, his eloquent nothings
    go shrieking through the void. He scorns to desecrate the virgin
    purity of his foolscap with the written word. What love is that which
    dare not tell its love? Come, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. See, Harlequin, here is a beech nut. You shake it, yet
    there is no sound. Is it full? Is it empty?

      HARLEQUIN. Who can say?

      DAN’L. Likewise, young Nathan’l he picks up a match-box last week,
    and throws it away because there was no sound when he rattles en
    [_To_ HARLEQUIN.] And what do you think?

      HARLEQUIN. I couldn’t say.

      DAN’L. It was so full all the time as not to rattle at all.

      HARLEQUIN. [_Scornfully._] Matches! ye gods! Let’s talk of cucumbers,
    Or shame the glory of this summer night
    With tales of warming-pans.
    Has no one here a button-hook,
    With which to probe the vast unsounded deeps
    [_To_ DAN’L.] Of thy poor addled brain.
    It yet may be,
    In some uncharted corner of the void
    That passes for thy mind,
    We find a collar-stud.
    Farewell!                                                 [_Exit._

      DAN’L. Well, he won’t come back again, that I will be bound,
    And as I be catching my death of cold, sitting on this damp ground,
    I’d best be moving. [_Rises._] Ugh! Good-night to ee.

      PIERROT. Good-night!

      COLOMBINE. [_Aside to_ DAN’L.] And, Mr. Arbitrator, if you see
    Your friend Nathan’l, say that Pierrot
    Owes more to him than he will ever know. [_Exit_ DAN’L.

      COLOMBINE. They have gone!

      PIERROT. Ah!

      COLOMBINE. And the night draws on.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      COLOMBINE. You are sad. Why are you sad, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. I cannot tell.

      COLOMBINE. And you are cold. Is it the night air?

      PIERROT. The wind-swept wold
    Is a street of gold,
    So my lady be walking there.

      COLOMBINE. Yet you are sad. See, they have gone and will not
    come again.

      PIERROT. So love may vanish too,
    And of his chain no link remain
    To tell the way he flew.

      COLOMBINE. Love, as the skylark, soars into that Heaven where’t
    fain would be.

      PIERROT. And singing still, returns. Time was when you, with
    Harlequin, would revel till the cold grey dawn came in.

      COLOMBINE. Light loves sometime were pleasant, but to-night the
    face of love seems changed. No more will stray this wandering heart
    of mine.

      PIERROT. Are you not sorry, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. Sorry for what, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. For loss of Harlequin.

      COLOMBINE. Harlequin is very clever but he talks of what he does
    not know, and promises what is not his to give. Cleverness is not
    everything, Pierrot. The mind is like a garden full of flowers, but
        The heart is a little house,
        With windows facing southerly;
        By which a pathway winds.
        And there, behind the blinds,
        We sit and wait,
        Watching, waiting for what?
        We know not.

    The garden is a pleasant place in summer, but when it is winter, we
    seek the fireside of the little house.

      PIERROT. Yet you are fond of gardens and pretty flowers, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. What flowers grow
          In your garden, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. My garden is full of the flowers,
          My mother planted for me;
          Curious, old-world flowers,
          Thyme, lavender, rosemary.
          Planted in days gone by.
          And, though no gardener I,
          As the shadows fall, I tend them all;
          Watering, pruning there.
          Am I happy in my lot?
          I know not.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. And there is the little house, Pierrot.

      PIERROT. Ah, yes there is the little house.
          Do you remember when
          You peeped through the pane, and then
          Went on your way again?
          Out of my sight, although,
          I beckoned you as you passed,
          And sat at my window mournfully.
          But you came again at last.
          And, seeing you come, I said;
          “The flowers in my garden are dead,
          So will she have no more of me.”

    COLOMBINE. I am knocking at the door, Pierrot.
          Knocking and waiting there,
          For the sound of a step on the stair.
          Will you open to me, Pierrot?

                                [PIERROT’S _answer may be taken in the
                                  affirmative. As they sit together, it
                                  grows dark._

[Illustration]

      PIERROT. [_Rising._] Come dear, and let us go,
    Together, hand in hand,
    Into that sun-lit land,
    Where life and love are things inseparable.
    Where, beneath cloudless skies,
    The happy are the wise,
    And none reprove the glory of a love they may not understand.

                                                     [_Exit together._
                          [_It becomes quite dark_: DAN’L _and an_ OLD
                            MAN _pass slowly across the stage, carrying
                            lanterns, and peering cautiously into the
                            blackness of the night_.

      THE OLD MAN. You was dreaming, Dan’l. That’s about the size of it.

      DAN’L. And I tells ee I wur as wide awake as you be. Us had been
    sitting over-long by the clump, and all of a sudden I looks up and
    sees a fairy. “Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l,” I sez, “be I dreaming or
    be I cracked?”

                              [_They pass off, and the curtain falls._


                                FINIS

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                             OTHER VERSES




                            THE MARIONETTE


        Man is merely a marionette
          On invisible wires suspended.
        And it’s just as well he shouldn’t forget
            That Fate the showman is in the wings,
            Working the business and pulling the strings
        Till his turn is over and ended.

        Man is merely a figure on strings,
          By the glare of the footlights blinded.
        And the wonderful way he dances and sings
            Is not unlikely to fill his mind
            With a great contempt for the Power behind,
        Till suddenly he’s reminded.

        Man is the cream of an idle jest,
          A smile on the face of sorrow.
        A sad peculiar figure at best;
            Willing to sacrifice every day,
            Breaking his heart in the hope of play
        On a problematical morrow.




                          A LETTER FROM HOME


        I’ve a letter from home to-day;
        A letter from home to say
        That they’re cutting the trees in the Priory Wood,
        That lambing is over and crops are good.
        Quite the usual thing, be it understood,
        Is my letter from home, to-day.

        I’ve a letter from home, to-day;
        A letter from far away,
        Bidding me ever to bear in mind
        The dear old friends I have left behind.
        But I’m not of the quickly forgetting kind,
        Dear letter from home, to-day!

        In my letter from home, to-day;
        Is a postscript, just to say
        “No doubt you’ll be very much grieved to hear
        That the girl who stayed at the Grange last year,
        Is dead, and was yesterday buried here.”
        And the world has ended, to-day.




                           THE EXPLANATION


                How do I know I love you?
                Why, because
                When you’re away, d’ye see,
                I kind o’ wanders lonesome like
                An’ frets,
                ’Cause you’re not there with me.
                An’ when I meet you by the stile
                At night,
                And not a soul to see,
                I scarce durst speak to you because
                You’re you, an’ I’m just me.




                              MEMORANDA


                In your Book of Memory,
                Set aside no page for me.
                Do not write our friendship there,
                But, if you’ve the time to spare,
                Scribble just this hurried line:
                “He was once a friend of mine.”

                Blot it very carefully,
                Turn the page that none may see.
                Life goes singing down the way
                Different ballads every day.
                Other pages open fair,
                Set new tales of friendship there.

                And the day will come maybe,
                When that hurried line of me;
                Seen by chance a moment’s space,
                Will recall a vanished face,
                And a memory sweeter than
                Many written pages can.




                      LOVE, LAUGHTER, AND AFTER


            The ruinous cottage, the broken latch;
            The cold stone floor and the dripping thatch.
            The ripe red lips of the girl who stands
            Holding her lover’s hands.

            The gay Casino, the fancy ball;
            The twinkling lights of the crowded hall.
            The cool sweet air of the terrace dim,
            Love and laughter and--him.

            The pitiful pageant that follows soon;
            The music hall and the cheap saloon.
            The sad procession, the coffee stall.
            The river that ends it all.




                             TH’ COORTIN’


                ’Tis just about a wik ago,
                  Or mebbe two, or theresabout,
                As I axed Kate why ur an’ Joe
                  Was seed together waalking out;
                Whenas, fur nigh upon a year,
                ’Twur I as had been coortin’ ur.

                “Why, laws-a-mussey, Bill,” ur sez,
                  “Fur certain sure ye must allow
                Us two caan’t alluz spend our days
                  The same as us be doin’ now.
                Ye’d better wed wi’ one ye doan’t
                Than waalk wi’ one ye do, as woan’t.”

                I cudden zackly understand
                  What ’twur as she was drivin’ at,
                Until I cotched ur by the hand
                  And took a peep ’erneath ur hat.
                Wur what I see surprised I so,
                  I gi’ed ur kiss, an’ whispered low:
                “Ye’d better wed the feller who
                Has alluz bin in luv wi’ you.”
                And that’s just what ur means to do.




                              AGREEMENT

                    Oyez! Oyez! Behold we state
                    The rules of this our Syndicate.


              Let it be granted first of all,
              That you are not so young and small
              As foolish people would suppose,
              From your long hair and shorter clothes.

              Item the second, please agree
              To just the opposite in me.
              For would the wisest man alive
              Imagine I was twenty-five?

              This done, folk cannot make a fuss,
              Or say that we’re preposterous.
              For you become, as all may see,
              A chaperone in charge of me.

              Thirdly, this reservation’s made,
              The Syndicate’s too old and staid
              To ride (though you’ll object no doubt)
              In swinging boat and roundabout.

              Fourthly, the world’s a dear old place,
              So always keep a smiling face.
              It suits you best, and as to that,
              So does pink chiffon in your hat.

              Lastly, lest envious folk combine
              To wreck your Syndicate, and mine,
              My autograph is here affixed,
              Written in blood and water mixed.

       _P.S._ It may not look like blood to you
              But recollect my blood is blue.




                             THE BURYIN’


                The mists be on the river bed,
                The roses all be gone;
                And here be I, about to die,
                Wi’ harvest coming on.
                Dear Lord, I’ve trapsed some weary miles,
                I’ll be main glad to rest awhiles.

                The folk’ll soon be in the fields,
                A-getting in the grain.
                For most of those, the time I’ve chose
                Be awkerd in the main.
                Though not so bad, ’tis sure, for they
                As be a-working by the day.

                September be a better month
                For all the carter men;
                And when I die don’t signify,
                So let I bide till then.
                The wagons’ll be standing by,
                And there’ll be time to bury I.




                          A ZONG TO ZING-OH!


            When the zun beyond the Beacon be a-zettin’
            And everything’s as quiet as can be,
            By the gate to varmur’s meddy,
            That old gate zo vurm and zteddy,
            You be pretty zure uv vindin’ Jim and me.

            When the mists along the valley be uprisin’
            And the nightingale’s a-zingin’ in the tree;
            When the peewits be a-zquawkin’
            Uz don’t waste no time a-talkin’
            Time’s a vasty zight too short sez Jim an’ me

            With the honeyzuckle zcent zo thick as treacle,
            And the chestnut blossoms droppin’ onto we;
            As us zets zo close together,
            Why zometimes I wonders whether
            Jim ull zet that close in Paradise to me.

            When the clocks down in the village be a-strikin’
            And darkness comes a-creepin’ up the lea,
            Then, though us be zeldom ready,
            Us must leave old varmur’s meddy,
            Or the volk ull all be wonderin’ where us be.




                                 SONG


            Long ago,
            (How long ago I really don’t know;)
            A kingfisher lived in a valley of green,
            The finest kingfisher that ever was seen--
            In that little green valley I know.

            Silent and slow
            All in a row, buttercups grow.
            One day the kingfisher selected his queen,
            And the bride wore a costume of purple and green
            ’Neath the willows that stand in a row.

            Heigho!
            (As the years go, still the streams flow)
            The whole of this summer they haven’t been seen,
            And a wood-pecker reigns in that valley serene.
            Where they’ve gone to I really don’t know.




                              PHILOSOPHY


                When I was young, in days gone by,
                I smoked Wild Woodbines on the sly.
                They made me ill, but what of that?
                ’Twas nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                If I had shirked that pallid brow
                I couldn’t smoke Havanas now.

                The only girl I ever kissed,
                Both found and left an optimist.
                She jilted me, but even that
                Was nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                I’ve such a cozy little den,
                And know a lot of married men.

                And now, although I’m getting stout,
                And though my hair is falling out,
                And people call me old and fat,
                There’s nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                Although I am a perfect fright,
                I don’t look bad by candle light.




                               FORFEITS


                You fail to catch the trencher spun
                And, later, when the game is done,
                The lady who collects the fees
                Demands a forfeit, if you please.
                You find a penny, grimed and black,
                And hope that you may get it back.

                You sit in speechless misery,
                And wonder what your fate will be,
                Until, within that giggling ring,
                You have to claim the wretched thing;
                Then sally forth upon your quest,
                To kiss the one you love the best.

                You don’t appreciate the fun,
                But curb a wild desire to run;
                Then seek a matron staid and stout,
                And drag the willing victim out;
                Because, of course, it wouldn’t do
                To kiss the girl you wanted to.




                             THE REVIVAL


            Take me away, for I will see no more;
            It was but yesterday I saw the play before,
            The day on which my dear and I were wed--
            Your mother, child--your mother who is dead.
            Why did you bring me here to see a play
            Which she and I saw only yesterday?




                         A PATRON OF THE ARTS


                    I knew a lady once I did,
                    Who lived away at Pontypridd;
                    She liked my verses very much,
                    And said I had the lyric touch.

                    She used to ask me round to lunch,
                    And say I ought to edit “Punch,”
                    As Owen S. and Francis B.,
                    Were amateurs compared to me.

                    Last week I met her in a batch
                    Of lunatics at Colney Hatch,
                    And heard she always spoke of me
                    As far surpassing Calverley.




                              CRITICISM


                A simple poet on a time,
                Resolved to write a simple rhyme.
                His verse was pleasing to the ear;
                He also made his meaning clear.

                The critics glanced at it, and said
                Such rubbish they had never read.
                A point on which they did agree,
                With touching unanimity.

                The simple poet took his lay,
                And turned it round the other way.
                Shuffled the sentences about,
                And took a dozen commas out.

                The critics took the volume, and
                Read, marked--and failed to understand.
                Then fell upon their stomachs flat,
                This prodigy to marvel at.




                           TREASON AND PLOT


                When I am very, very rich,
                  And very famous, too,
                I’ll take a cab to Regent’s Park,
                  And walk into the Zoo
                With quite a consequential air,
                For I shall be the richest there.

                And in a lordly way I’ll take
                  A shilling from my purse,
                And buy the biggest rattle-snake
                  To carry home to Nurse,
                And, as she’s very short of breath,
                Perhaps ’twill frighten her to death.




                        THE POPPY AND THE POET


                Like poppies in the golden corn,
                  The poet’s race is run;
                Each strives alike to gain the ear;
                  The poppy from the sun
                Borrows more radiance than gold--
                A poet’s much the same, I’m told.

                But still these differences appear
                  When everything is said;
                The poet’s leaves, I greatly fear,
                  Are very seldom read.
                Poppies but borrow from the sun--
                A poet will from anyone.




                              EL DORADO


                He sought it through the golden isles
                Of Once Upon a Time.
                In fabled fields of Might Have Been
                He heard its distant chime.
                He saw, mid Dreamland’s mystic glades,
                Its turrets from afar;
                And found it in the valley, where
                The deepest shadows are.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


The Project Gutenberg eBook of Colombine a fantasy
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Colombine a fantasy
        and other verses

Author: Reginald Arkell

Illustrator: Frederick Carter

Release date: June 19, 2025 [eBook #76341]

Language: English

Original publication: London: Benn and Cronin, Ltd, 1911

Credits: Carol Brown, Charlene Taylor and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***

Transcriber’s Note:

Words and phrases in italics are surrounded by underscores, _like
this_.

“ro” was changed to “to” ... desire to run ...




  COLOMBINE

  A FANTASY

  AND OTHER VERSES




  _LONDON_
  BENN AND CRONIN, LTD.
  CRAVEN HOUSE, KINGSWAY, W.C.
  1911




       _Copyright: Entered at Stationers’ Hall, December 1911.
                  Acting Rights strictly Reserved._




[Illustration: COLOMBINE.]




[Illustration:

  COLOMBINE
  A FANTASY

  BY REGINALD ARKELL

  WITH SOME DRAWINGS
  BY FREDERICK CARTER.]




[Illustration]




                            AUTHOR’S NOTE

“COLOMBINE” was first performed at Clavier Hall, Hanover Square, W.,
on Thursday, 7th December 1911, with the following cast:

    Dan’l (an old man)         MR. B. BUTLER.
    Nathan’l (a boy)           MR. A. E. FILMER.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Harlequin                  MR. REGINALD BACH.
    Pierrot                    MR. MARK HANNAM.
             (_By permission of Miss Lillah McCarthy_)
    Colombine                  MISS ETHEL EVANS.

    The play was produced by MR. A. E. FILMER.


                                SCENE

  A ROMAN CAMP on the summit of Cissbury Beacon in the South Downs.
     A fairy ring occupies the foreground. All round are beech trees.
     The time is evening.




[Illustration]




                               PROLOGUE


    There are circles of green upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the Pharisees dance--so they say;
    Revelling merrily round it until
    The dawn over Ditchling is gray.
    And travellers lost upon Cissbury Hill--
    (Pixy-led folk who stray)
    Seated on toad-stools, with fairy folk sup,
    _But here, in Haymarket, the roadway is up_.

    There are circles of beech upon Cissbury Hill,
    Where the leaves of a lifetime decay;
    Hiding the memories, lingering still,
    Of Rome’s indisputable sway.
    And under the beech-leaves of Cissbury Hill,
    Throbs the heart of the downland alway.
    While dreaming of chieftains and warriors in woad,
    _You’re lighting your pipe in the Charing Cross Road_.




[Illustration]




                              COLOMBINE


     _An old man and a boy are seen talking; both are labourers.
                 The old man, who is seated, speaks_:

      DAN’L. Well, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. There’s little use in stopping here much longer.

      NATHAN’L. Not as I can see.

      DAN’L. Like my old eyes, the sun don’t grow no stronger.

      NATHAN’L. And I wants my tea.

      DAN’L. Do ee, lad?

      NATHAN’L. Ah, main bad.

      DAN’L. Which means ’tis time to go, I reckons.

      NATHAN’L. That’s a proposition as I seconds.

      DAN’L. Come on then, let’s be moving. Tip us yer daddle.

      NATHAN’L. All of a sudden you be in a mortal caddle.
    I wants to hear the finish of that yarn
    As you was spinning down at Tranter’s Barn.
    A peck of troubles it was all about.
    I wants to know how everything turned out.

      DAN’L. You wants your tea, that’s what you wants, my son.

      NATHAN’L. There’s time enough for tea when you be done.

      DAN’L. Well, though ’tis little enough I read,
    I sid in a story-book years ago,
    (Though mind, Nathan’l, there beant no need
    To be letting on as I told ee so)
    That all the troubles as worrits a man
    Was locked in a box when the world began.

    And there no doubt they’d ha’ bid till now,
    If the dummel soul as had got the key,
    Hadn’t got mixed up with a maid somehow
    And gone and handed it over to she.
    And what do ee fancy the maiden did?
    Darn me, Nathan’l, ur lifted the lid.

[Illustration]

    And all they troubles come trooping out,
    Like hens from a chicken-run might have done.
    For the maiden fancied without a doubt,
    They’d go back in the evening like, one by one.
    But time’s got to settle a few more clocks,
    Afore they troubles goes back to their box.

    Straight, Nathan’l, ’tis near enough
    To make a methody parson swear.
    And every time as I reads such stuff,
    I goes so red as yon moon up there.
    To think of the trouble ur brought on we--
    I reckon I owes my old gal to she.

      NATHAN’L. Is it true, do ee think, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, mebbe not, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee think, Dan’l--she let out the lot?

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe not.

      NATHAN’L. Sounds like a fairy story to me.

      DAN’L. Mebbe, Nathan’l, mebbe, mebbe.

      NATHAN’L. Do ee believe in fairies, Dan’l?

      DAN’L. Can’t be sure as I do, Nathan’l.

      NATHAN’L. Well, I don’t anyway, and that’s a fact.

                          _Enter_ COLOMBINE.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l, be I dreaming or be I cracked?

      NATHAN’L. My goodness, Dan’l, I do believe as she’s a fairy....

      DAN’L. Here, come into the shadow of these trees,
    And give that clacking tongue of yourn a rest.

      NATHAN’L. Oh, this be more wonderful than all the things I ever
          guessed.

      DAN’L. And it means _summat_ that you _may_ depend.

      NATHAN’L. See, where she walks, the grass don’t even bend
    Beneath her feet. She be a fairy, Dan’l.

      DAN’L. I wish you’d hold your clacking tongue, Nathan’l.

                      [COLOMBINE, _hearing a noise, pauses to listen_.

      COLOMBINE. Who’s there? The daylight fades. I cannot see.

      DAN’L. You go.

      NATHAN’L.     No, you.

      DAN’L.                So please you, Miss, ’tis we.

      COLOMBINE. Good evening, Sirs.

      DAN’L.                Our best respects to ee.
    A goodish evening to be sure, but getting dark and cold.
    Time gals like you was safe abed, if I might make so bold.

      COLOMBINE. Old man, the night has but begun.

      DAN’L. The day be done.

      COLOMBINE. The moon has scarcely risen yet.

      DAN’L. The sun have set.

      COLOMBINE. The sun his wandering footsteps stays to greet the crescent moon.
    The nightjar and the nightingale will both be singing soon.

      DAN’L. Us don’t set much store by nightingales in these parts,
            and as for nightjars! Oh lor, us shoots they.
          Give I a linnet now,
          A-sitting on a bough;
          As sings his message to the sun,
          And goes to sleep when day be done,
          Respectable like!

      NATHAN’L. [_Coming forward._]
          Queer things,
          These here rings
          You sees in the grass
          When you pass.
          They say ’tis where Pharisees dances at night!
          Be that right?

      COLOMBINE. Quite right; yet once the circle that you see,
    Saw war and tumult.

      DAN’L.           Lawks-a-mussey me!

      COLOMBINE. The Roman legions camped on yonder brow,
    And built the road you stand on.

      NATHAN’L.                     Did they now!

      COLOMBINE. The sun would sink out yonder in the west,
    And shine upon their helmets.

      DAN’L.                      Well I’m blest!

      COLOMBINE. The very spot where Julius Caesar sat,
    Lies just behind those beeches.

      NATHAN’L.                    Think of that!

      COLOMBINE. In yonder barrow treasures rare lie hid.
    Dig deep to find them.

      DAN’L.               Well I never did!

      NATHAN’L. But when did all this
                Happen, Miss?
                How many years ago,
                I’d like to know?

      COLOMBINE. Roughly two thousand, on this very spot.

      DAN’L. Lor! What a memory you must have got.

      COLOMBINE. [_To_ NATHAN’L.] But tell me please;
    Beneath these trees,
    What travellers come, and whither bound?
    Do still these ancient heights resound
    With martial music and the tramp of men?

      NATHAN’L. Us gets a hurdy-gurdy now and then,
    And once a clown on stilts went through the wood;
    And oh! he could catch pennies, that he could.

      COLOMBINE. But in what fashion do you pass your days?

      NATHAN’L. I kill the time in various sorts of ways.
    Scaring the rooks as settles on the corn;
    Helping the shepherd when the lambs be born.
    Talking to Dan’l about these here rings,
    And wondering about a power of things.
    As don’t concern nobody, I suppose.
    But then, you must do summat, goodness knows.

      COLOMBINE. Of course. ’Tis lonely here without a doubt.
    What are the things you’re wondering about
    To-day?

[Illustration]

      NATHAN’L. Such things as surely never was.
    Such things as surely no one ever does.
    And yet, of nothing, for they moves so fast,
    You finds as you’ve forgotten them at last.
    Just like a dream they passes and be gone.
    Just like a dream they passes....

      COLOMBINE.                      Yes, go on.

      NATHAN’L. Just like a dream, for though I thinks a lot,
    Before they’re rightly thought they’re clean forgot.
    Though somehow, now I sits and talks to you,
    I keeps remembering things I never knew.
    Just like as though somebody slammed a door,
    When you was going where you’d been before;
    Leaving you standing on the further side,
    Wondering at what was happening inside.
    Whether the folk you knew was there or not;
    Whether you really knew, and had forgot;
    Whether you’d been there once when you was small,
    Or whether you was never there at all.
    ’Tis plaguey awkerd, wondering, that it be.
    And now I must be off, I wants my tea.                    [_Exit._

      COLOMBINE. Good-bye. And think sometimes of me.

                           [_Rousing herself from the brown study into
                             which this revelation has thrown her, and
                             addressing_ DAN’L.

    Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. [_Startled._] Eh?

      COLOMBINE. Are you fond of a fight?

      DAN’L. It all depends. Why?

      COLOMBINE. There’s going to be a fight.

      DAN’L. When? Where?

      COLOMBINE. Very soon.
             By the light of the moon.
             On the very stroke of nine.
             All for love of Colombine.

      DAN’L. Shall I fetch a policeman?

      COLOMBINE. A policeman! Dear me, no.

      DAN’L. Who’s going to fight.

      COLOMBINE. Don’t you know?
                             Harlequin and Pierrot.

      DAN’L. Never heard of they.

      COLOMBINE. Won’t it be fun?

      DAN’L. Good fun
                      For the one as gets killed.

      COLOMBINE. But they won’t kill each other. They never do. They’re
    _most_ dependable.

      DAN’L. Have um fought before?

      COLOMBINE. Of course. Hundreds of times.

      DAN’L. Silly young chaps.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. They’re not silly. They’re fighting for me. Don’t you
    understand?

      DAN’L. I fought about a girl once. But only once. It was a long
    time ago.

      COLOMBINE. You’re not romantic. Romance would die if it wasn’t
    for fighting. Romance _is_ fighting.

      DAN’L. Then I’ve had quite enough romance to please me.

      COLOMBINE. All properly constituted love affairs should include
    a fight. Love without fighting is insipid.

      DAN’L. _You_ don’t have to do the fighting. Which of ’em loves
    you the most?

      COLOMBINE. Why, Pierrot, of course.

      DAN’L. Then why don’t you marry him?

      COLOMBINE. And disappoint Harlequin? I couldn’t do that.

      DAN’L. When are you going to decide?

      COLOMBINE. I don’t know. [_On her fingers._] This year, next
    year, some time, never. To-night perhaps.

      DAN’L. One day they’ll get tired of fighting. What then?

      COLOMBINE. Never!

      DAN’L. You’re sure of that?

      COLOMBINE. Oh, yes. Quite sure.

      DAN’L. One of them may get killed.

      COLOMBINE. They wouldn’t be so careless.

      DAN’L. What should you do if one of ’em got killed by accident?

      COLOMBINE. I should be very angry. But you’re very horrid to
    suggest such things. Why don’t you go away?

      DAN’L. Good-bye.

      COLOMBINE. No, stay.

      DAN’L. Well, I’m fond of a fight, I must say.

      COLOMBINE. Hush! They are coming. Quick, behind this tree.

      DAN’L. Anywhere in the background’s good enough for me.

      COLOMBINE. A fight, a fight! And all for love of me.

                    [_The orchestra plays quietly the Soldiers’ Chorus
                        and snatches of other martial refrains. The
                        two watchers betray tense excitement._
                        HARLEQUIN _and_ PIERROT _enter arm in arm.
                        Any differences they may have had are evidently
                        settled._ COLOMBINE _looks on in astonishment_.

[Illustration]

      HARLEQUIN. Mind you, as girls go, Colombine’s one of the best.

      PIERROT. Ah yes.

      HARLEQUIN. But nothing to fight about.

      PIERROT. [_Without conviction._] No.

      HARLEQUIN. And fighting’s going out of fashion. There’s no doubt
    about that.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. The whole trend of modern thought is opposed to it.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. None of the best people do it.

      PIERROT. I suppose not.

      HARLEQUIN. And one must be in the movement.

      PIERROT. Of course.

      HARLEQUIN. Arbitration’s the thing nowadays.

      PIERROT. What’s that?

      HARLEQUIN. Why, you each talk until you’re out of breath, and
    the one with most breath wins.

      PIERROT. [_Taking a deep breath._] That seems a good idea.

      HARLEQUIN. It is.

      PIERROT. But what will Colombine say if we don’t fight? She loves
    to watch us fight.

      HARLEQUIN. My dear chap, we must be firm. Adopt your point of
    view, and stick to it in the face of all opposition.

      COLOMBINE. [_Advancing._] Aren’t you going to fight?

      PIERROT. [_Kindly._] Not to-night.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! Why not?

      HARLEQUIN. Well, we’ve got
                 Other fish to fry,
                 That’s why.

      COLOMBINE. Oh! do fight!

      PIERROT. Not to-night.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, my dear girl, do listen to reason. You will admit,
    I suppose, that the most elementary point about a duel is to spit
    your opponent through the gizzard.

      COLOMBINE. Yes.

      HARLEQUIN. Well, I haven’t got a gizzard, and what’s the use of
    trying to spit a man’s gizzard, if he hasn’t got a gizzard to spit?
    You must be reasonable.

      COLOMBINE. How do you know you haven’t got a gizzard?

      HARLEQUIN. We don’t know for certain, we assume.

      PIERROT. You’ve only to look at him to see there isn’t room.

      COLOMBINE. But why the gizzard? What does it matter _where_ you
    spit him so long as you do spit him?

      HARLEQUIN. For heaven’s sake, my dear girl, don’t preach such
    revolutionary doctrines. There is a certain etiquette to be
    observed, even in a battle.

      COLOMBINE. [_After a pause._] But it’s quite simple. You spit
    Pierrot. He’s got a gizzard, I suppose.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. Pierrot consulted a phrenologist....

      PIERROT. Soothsayer!

      HARLEQUIN. Sorry--soothsayer, who said he was born to be hung....

      PIERROT. Hanged!

      HARLEQUIN. Hanged, and so of course, he doesn’t want to run the
    risk of disappointing him.

      COLOMBINE. Very considerate, I’m sure.
    I think you’re absolutely _horrid_, there.               [_Cries._

      HARLEQUIN. [_To_ PIERROT.] Don’t waver, both together.

      HARLEQUIN and PIERROT. We don’t care
          Tuppence what you think or say,
          We talked the matter over, here to-day;
          And arbitration is the only way.

      COLOMBINE. You’re frightened.

      HARLEQUIN. Don’t be silly. Frightened! Me!

      COLOMBINE. Well, who’s your arbitrator going to be?

      HARLEQUIN. [_Taken aback._] Why yes, we must have someone, I
        suppose.
    But who’s to do it?

      PIERROT.          Goodness only knows!
    There’s not a single person within call.

    COLOMBINE. [_Clapping her hands._] Hurrah! You’ll have to fight,
      then, after all.

                       [_There is a pause, during which_ PIERROT _and_
                       HARLEQUIN _look at each other in dismay_.
                       COLOMBINE _on the other hand claps her
                       hands and pirouettes round the stage. Then_
                       HARLEQUIN _sees_ DAN’L _and drags him forward
                       at the same time speaking in asides_.

      HARLEQUIN. What’s your name?

      DAN’L. Much the same
            As it’s always bin,
            Week out, week in,
            This seventy year and more.

      HARLEQUIN. Good! We want you to arbitrate.
    You’re the very man.

      DAN’L. Lawks-a-mussey. I’ll do it if I can.

      HARLEQUIN. There’s much gold.
               Wealth untold!
               If you only do
               As I tell you to.

      DAN’L. Fire away!

      HARLEQUIN. Until to-day, Pierrot and I have been in the habit of
    engaging in mortal combat for the hand of Colombine. Owing to the
    fact that up to the present neither has had the decency to get
    killed, and as a result of the wave of anti-militarism that has
    swept over the country, we have decided to fall back on arbitration.
    And you are the arbitrator. You understand?

      DAN’L. No!

      HARLEQUIN. Then you’re very thick.

      DAN’L. You speaks too quick
    And the way you keeps hopping about makes me fair mazed.

      HARLEQUIN. Now, listen. One of us is to marry
    Colombine, and you’ve to decide which it’s to be.
    Do you see?

      DAN’L. No.

      HARLEQUIN. But it’s quite simple.

      DAN’L. Maybe. But how do I know which it’s to be?

      HARLEQUIN. I’ll let you into a secret. It’s me!

      DAN’L. Oh! And if I goes and sez ’tis you,
    What’s yon chap in the white trousers going to do?

      HARLEQUIN. Never mind him. He’s a fool.

      DAN’L. It seems it don’t much matter what I say;
    I’m bound to upset one of ye either way.
    Oh! very well.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Pierrot! Gather round.

                        [_They sit in a semicircle_; COLOMBINE _and_
                          DAN’L _in the centre_.

      DAN’L. I shall catch my death of cold, sitting on this damp
    ground.

                        [_There is silence, each waiting for the other
                          to speak._

      COLOMBINE. You don’t seem very anxious, either of you.

      DAN’L. Who goes first?

      HARLEQUIN. If I don’t say something, and quickly, I shall burst.

      DAN’L. Then you’d best get started. [_Aside._] How long will it take?

      HARLEQUIN. Until it’s ended.

      DAN’L. Cut it short for goodness’ sake.

      HARLEQUIN. Colombine! Let me take you away from these lonely hills.
    Into the heart of the world where lies the Land of Yesterday. There
    are stored all the happy hours that you have known. You shall live
    them all over again, Colombine--every one. I will lead you by secret
    paths, through the dim woods of yesternight until we stand together
    in the sunlight of the days that have been. Walking backward through
    the years, we will collect those dear lost delights, of which only
    the memory remains. From all that has gone before, it shall be yours
    to pick and choose, and no To-morrow shall throw its ominous shade
    before. The past shall deliver up its treasures to your hand; regrets
    shall be ended, and happiness shall be sure. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. No, Harlequin. The road to your Land of Yesterday is
    longer than you know, and there is no going back. Let us still take
    from the past our memories and our dreams, but do not ask for more,
    lest even these be denied.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: THE GATEWAY OF HAPPINESS]

      HARLEQUIN. As you will. Then it is to the future that we must
    turn. Colombine, far from here, set in a desert of hot sand, is a
    crystal, so large, that all the giants of Africa could not stir
    it the thickness of a hair. Peering into its depths, you may read
    your future to the end of time. A day, a week, a year, shall be no
    barrier to the vision of the mind. You may read all the riddles of
    the universe, and there will remain nothing that you do not know. You
    shall see your face as it will be when twice twenty harvest moons
    have waned, and fifty summer suns have set. And I, alone, can point
    you the way. Will you come, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. You promise much, Harlequin. It may well be that in some
    spot remote from the haunts of men, the Mirror of Fate yet lies hid.
    And you may find it. Who knows! But this, at least, is certain; the
    path will be difficult and the journey long. Would you not tire by
    the way, Harlequin? I think you would. [_Pause._] And, it is not in
    distant deserts I would seek. In the woods of home, hearts may thrill
    to the eloquent silences of the night. [HARLEQUIN _rises_.] All the
    secrets of the world might be ours, did we but care to learn the
    simple language of the nightingale. Across the moonlight, the shadows
    of the branches trace unforgettable things. Great secrets tremble on
    the lips of the leaves, and mortals grope vainly in the daylight for
    things seen most plainly in the dark.

      DAN’L. [_Coughing to draw attention to himself._]
    I’ve allus noticed, in whatever parts I med ha’ bin,
    A maid in love have allus got a fairish yarn to spin.
    And in whatever parts I’ve bin, I’ve allus noticed too,
    The foolish lads do take it all for gospel, that um do.
    But though I’ve kept good notice in whatever parts I was,
    I’ve never heard a maid to spin a yarn like this un does.
    Ur be a marvel, that ur be; I hope as ur won’t try
    When ur’s tired of you two fellows here, to spin no yarns to I;
    For fools be mostly biggest fools when um be old and grey.
    And if I went along o’ she, what _ud_ my missus say.
    Next man?

      COLOMBINE. Come, Pierrot!

      PIERROT. [_With an effort._] Colombine!

      COLOMBINE. Yes, Pierrot.

      HARLEQUIN. Go on!

      DAN’L. Let’s hear what you’ve got to say, young fellow.

      PIERROT. There is nothing to say.

      COLOMBINE. Nothing to say!

      PIERROT. Save that I love you, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. And is that so small a thing, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. But I have nothing to offer you, nothing.

      COLOMBINE. [_Softly._] Save yourself.

      HARLEQUIN. I have always said that Pierrot was master of sounding
    silences. The sweetest singer of unsung songs, his eloquent nothings
    go shrieking through the void. He scorns to desecrate the virgin
    purity of his foolscap with the written word. What love is that which
    dare not tell its love? Come, Colombine.

      COLOMBINE. See, Harlequin, here is a beech nut. You shake it, yet
    there is no sound. Is it full? Is it empty?

      HARLEQUIN. Who can say?

      DAN’L. Likewise, young Nathan’l he picks up a match-box last week,
    and throws it away because there was no sound when he rattles en
    [_To_ HARLEQUIN.] And what do you think?

      HARLEQUIN. I couldn’t say.

      DAN’L. It was so full all the time as not to rattle at all.

      HARLEQUIN. [_Scornfully._] Matches! ye gods! Let’s talk of cucumbers,
    Or shame the glory of this summer night
    With tales of warming-pans.
    Has no one here a button-hook,
    With which to probe the vast unsounded deeps
    [_To_ DAN’L.] Of thy poor addled brain.
    It yet may be,
    In some uncharted corner of the void
    That passes for thy mind,
    We find a collar-stud.
    Farewell!                                                 [_Exit._

      DAN’L. Well, he won’t come back again, that I will be bound,
    And as I be catching my death of cold, sitting on this damp ground,
    I’d best be moving. [_Rises._] Ugh! Good-night to ee.

      PIERROT. Good-night!

      COLOMBINE. [_Aside to_ DAN’L.] And, Mr. Arbitrator, if you see
    Your friend Nathan’l, say that Pierrot
    Owes more to him than he will ever know. [_Exit_ DAN’L.

      COLOMBINE. They have gone!

      PIERROT. Ah!

      COLOMBINE. And the night draws on.

      PIERROT. Yes.

      COLOMBINE. You are sad. Why are you sad, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. I cannot tell.

      COLOMBINE. And you are cold. Is it the night air?

      PIERROT. The wind-swept wold
    Is a street of gold,
    So my lady be walking there.

      COLOMBINE. Yet you are sad. See, they have gone and will not
    come again.

      PIERROT. So love may vanish too,
    And of his chain no link remain
    To tell the way he flew.

      COLOMBINE. Love, as the skylark, soars into that Heaven where’t
    fain would be.

      PIERROT. And singing still, returns. Time was when you, with
    Harlequin, would revel till the cold grey dawn came in.

      COLOMBINE. Light loves sometime were pleasant, but to-night the
    face of love seems changed. No more will stray this wandering heart
    of mine.

      PIERROT. Are you not sorry, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. Sorry for what, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. For loss of Harlequin.

      COLOMBINE. Harlequin is very clever but he talks of what he does
    not know, and promises what is not his to give. Cleverness is not
    everything, Pierrot. The mind is like a garden full of flowers, but
        The heart is a little house,
        With windows facing southerly;
        By which a pathway winds.
        And there, behind the blinds,
        We sit and wait,
        Watching, waiting for what?
        We know not.

    The garden is a pleasant place in summer, but when it is winter, we
    seek the fireside of the little house.

      PIERROT. Yet you are fond of gardens and pretty flowers, Colombine?

      COLOMBINE. What flowers grow
          In your garden, Pierrot?

      PIERROT. My garden is full of the flowers,
          My mother planted for me;
          Curious, old-world flowers,
          Thyme, lavender, rosemary.
          Planted in days gone by.
          And, though no gardener I,
          As the shadows fall, I tend them all;
          Watering, pruning there.
          Am I happy in my lot?
          I know not.

[Illustration]

      COLOMBINE. And there is the little house, Pierrot.

      PIERROT. Ah, yes there is the little house.
          Do you remember when
          You peeped through the pane, and then
          Went on your way again?
          Out of my sight, although,
          I beckoned you as you passed,
          And sat at my window mournfully.
          But you came again at last.
          And, seeing you come, I said;
          “The flowers in my garden are dead,
          So will she have no more of me.”

    COLOMBINE. I am knocking at the door, Pierrot.
          Knocking and waiting there,
          For the sound of a step on the stair.
          Will you open to me, Pierrot?

                                [PIERROT’S _answer may be taken in the
                                  affirmative. As they sit together, it
                                  grows dark._

[Illustration]

      PIERROT. [_Rising._] Come dear, and let us go,
    Together, hand in hand,
    Into that sun-lit land,
    Where life and love are things inseparable.
    Where, beneath cloudless skies,
    The happy are the wise,
    And none reprove the glory of a love they may not understand.

                                                     [_Exit together._
                          [_It becomes quite dark_: DAN’L _and an_ OLD
                            MAN _pass slowly across the stage, carrying
                            lanterns, and peering cautiously into the
                            blackness of the night_.

      THE OLD MAN. You was dreaming, Dan’l. That’s about the size of it.

      DAN’L. And I tells ee I wur as wide awake as you be. Us had been
    sitting over-long by the clump, and all of a sudden I looks up and
    sees a fairy. “Lawks-a-mussey, Nathan’l,” I sez, “be I dreaming or
    be I cracked?”

                              [_They pass off, and the curtain falls._


                                FINIS

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                             OTHER VERSES




                            THE MARIONETTE


        Man is merely a marionette
          On invisible wires suspended.
        And it’s just as well he shouldn’t forget
            That Fate the showman is in the wings,
            Working the business and pulling the strings
        Till his turn is over and ended.

        Man is merely a figure on strings,
          By the glare of the footlights blinded.
        And the wonderful way he dances and sings
            Is not unlikely to fill his mind
            With a great contempt for the Power behind,
        Till suddenly he’s reminded.

        Man is the cream of an idle jest,
          A smile on the face of sorrow.
        A sad peculiar figure at best;
            Willing to sacrifice every day,
            Breaking his heart in the hope of play
        On a problematical morrow.




                          A LETTER FROM HOME


        I’ve a letter from home to-day;
        A letter from home to say
        That they’re cutting the trees in the Priory Wood,
        That lambing is over and crops are good.
        Quite the usual thing, be it understood,
        Is my letter from home, to-day.

        I’ve a letter from home, to-day;
        A letter from far away,
        Bidding me ever to bear in mind
        The dear old friends I have left behind.
        But I’m not of the quickly forgetting kind,
        Dear letter from home, to-day!

        In my letter from home, to-day;
        Is a postscript, just to say
        “No doubt you’ll be very much grieved to hear
        That the girl who stayed at the Grange last year,
        Is dead, and was yesterday buried here.”
        And the world has ended, to-day.




                           THE EXPLANATION


                How do I know I love you?
                Why, because
                When you’re away, d’ye see,
                I kind o’ wanders lonesome like
                An’ frets,
                ’Cause you’re not there with me.
                An’ when I meet you by the stile
                At night,
                And not a soul to see,
                I scarce durst speak to you because
                You’re you, an’ I’m just me.




                              MEMORANDA


                In your Book of Memory,
                Set aside no page for me.
                Do not write our friendship there,
                But, if you’ve the time to spare,
                Scribble just this hurried line:
                “He was once a friend of mine.”

                Blot it very carefully,
                Turn the page that none may see.
                Life goes singing down the way
                Different ballads every day.
                Other pages open fair,
                Set new tales of friendship there.

                And the day will come maybe,
                When that hurried line of me;
                Seen by chance a moment’s space,
                Will recall a vanished face,
                And a memory sweeter than
                Many written pages can.




                      LOVE, LAUGHTER, AND AFTER


            The ruinous cottage, the broken latch;
            The cold stone floor and the dripping thatch.
            The ripe red lips of the girl who stands
            Holding her lover’s hands.

            The gay Casino, the fancy ball;
            The twinkling lights of the crowded hall.
            The cool sweet air of the terrace dim,
            Love and laughter and--him.

            The pitiful pageant that follows soon;
            The music hall and the cheap saloon.
            The sad procession, the coffee stall.
            The river that ends it all.




                             TH’ COORTIN’


                ’Tis just about a wik ago,
                  Or mebbe two, or theresabout,
                As I axed Kate why ur an’ Joe
                  Was seed together waalking out;
                Whenas, fur nigh upon a year,
                ’Twur I as had been coortin’ ur.

                “Why, laws-a-mussey, Bill,” ur sez,
                  “Fur certain sure ye must allow
                Us two caan’t alluz spend our days
                  The same as us be doin’ now.
                Ye’d better wed wi’ one ye doan’t
                Than waalk wi’ one ye do, as woan’t.”

                I cudden zackly understand
                  What ’twur as she was drivin’ at,
                Until I cotched ur by the hand
                  And took a peep ’erneath ur hat.
                Wur what I see surprised I so,
                  I gi’ed ur kiss, an’ whispered low:
                “Ye’d better wed the feller who
                Has alluz bin in luv wi’ you.”
                And that’s just what ur means to do.




                              AGREEMENT

                    Oyez! Oyez! Behold we state
                    The rules of this our Syndicate.


              Let it be granted first of all,
              That you are not so young and small
              As foolish people would suppose,
              From your long hair and shorter clothes.

              Item the second, please agree
              To just the opposite in me.
              For would the wisest man alive
              Imagine I was twenty-five?

              This done, folk cannot make a fuss,
              Or say that we’re preposterous.
              For you become, as all may see,
              A chaperone in charge of me.

              Thirdly, this reservation’s made,
              The Syndicate’s too old and staid
              To ride (though you’ll object no doubt)
              In swinging boat and roundabout.

              Fourthly, the world’s a dear old place,
              So always keep a smiling face.
              It suits you best, and as to that,
              So does pink chiffon in your hat.

              Lastly, lest envious folk combine
              To wreck your Syndicate, and mine,
              My autograph is here affixed,
              Written in blood and water mixed.

       _P.S._ It may not look like blood to you
              But recollect my blood is blue.




                             THE BURYIN’


                The mists be on the river bed,
                The roses all be gone;
                And here be I, about to die,
                Wi’ harvest coming on.
                Dear Lord, I’ve trapsed some weary miles,
                I’ll be main glad to rest awhiles.

                The folk’ll soon be in the fields,
                A-getting in the grain.
                For most of those, the time I’ve chose
                Be awkerd in the main.
                Though not so bad, ’tis sure, for they
                As be a-working by the day.

                September be a better month
                For all the carter men;
                And when I die don’t signify,
                So let I bide till then.
                The wagons’ll be standing by,
                And there’ll be time to bury I.




                          A ZONG TO ZING-OH!


            When the zun beyond the Beacon be a-zettin’
            And everything’s as quiet as can be,
            By the gate to varmur’s meddy,
            That old gate zo vurm and zteddy,
            You be pretty zure uv vindin’ Jim and me.

            When the mists along the valley be uprisin’
            And the nightingale’s a-zingin’ in the tree;
            When the peewits be a-zquawkin’
            Uz don’t waste no time a-talkin’
            Time’s a vasty zight too short sez Jim an’ me

            With the honeyzuckle zcent zo thick as treacle,
            And the chestnut blossoms droppin’ onto we;
            As us zets zo close together,
            Why zometimes I wonders whether
            Jim ull zet that close in Paradise to me.

            When the clocks down in the village be a-strikin’
            And darkness comes a-creepin’ up the lea,
            Then, though us be zeldom ready,
            Us must leave old varmur’s meddy,
            Or the volk ull all be wonderin’ where us be.




                                 SONG


            Long ago,
            (How long ago I really don’t know;)
            A kingfisher lived in a valley of green,
            The finest kingfisher that ever was seen--
            In that little green valley I know.

            Silent and slow
            All in a row, buttercups grow.
            One day the kingfisher selected his queen,
            And the bride wore a costume of purple and green
            ’Neath the willows that stand in a row.

            Heigho!
            (As the years go, still the streams flow)
            The whole of this summer they haven’t been seen,
            And a wood-pecker reigns in that valley serene.
            Where they’ve gone to I really don’t know.




                              PHILOSOPHY


                When I was young, in days gone by,
                I smoked Wild Woodbines on the sly.
                They made me ill, but what of that?
                ’Twas nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                If I had shirked that pallid brow
                I couldn’t smoke Havanas now.

                The only girl I ever kissed,
                Both found and left an optimist.
                She jilted me, but even that
                Was nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                I’ve such a cozy little den,
                And know a lot of married men.

                And now, although I’m getting stout,
                And though my hair is falling out,
                And people call me old and fat,
                There’s nothing much to grumble at;
                    For, don’t you see?--
                Although I am a perfect fright,
                I don’t look bad by candle light.




                               FORFEITS


                You fail to catch the trencher spun
                And, later, when the game is done,
                The lady who collects the fees
                Demands a forfeit, if you please.
                You find a penny, grimed and black,
                And hope that you may get it back.

                You sit in speechless misery,
                And wonder what your fate will be,
                Until, within that giggling ring,
                You have to claim the wretched thing;
                Then sally forth upon your quest,
                To kiss the one you love the best.

                You don’t appreciate the fun,
                But curb a wild desire to run;
                Then seek a matron staid and stout,
                And drag the willing victim out;
                Because, of course, it wouldn’t do
                To kiss the girl you wanted to.




                             THE REVIVAL


            Take me away, for I will see no more;
            It was but yesterday I saw the play before,
            The day on which my dear and I were wed--
            Your mother, child--your mother who is dead.
            Why did you bring me here to see a play
            Which she and I saw only yesterday?




                         A PATRON OF THE ARTS


                    I knew a lady once I did,
                    Who lived away at Pontypridd;
                    She liked my verses very much,
                    And said I had the lyric touch.

                    She used to ask me round to lunch,
                    And say I ought to edit “Punch,”
                    As Owen S. and Francis B.,
                    Were amateurs compared to me.

                    Last week I met her in a batch
                    Of lunatics at Colney Hatch,
                    And heard she always spoke of me
                    As far surpassing Calverley.




                              CRITICISM


                A simple poet on a time,
                Resolved to write a simple rhyme.
                His verse was pleasing to the ear;
                He also made his meaning clear.

                The critics glanced at it, and said
                Such rubbish they had never read.
                A point on which they did agree,
                With touching unanimity.

                The simple poet took his lay,
                And turned it round the other way.
                Shuffled the sentences about,
                And took a dozen commas out.

                The critics took the volume, and
                Read, marked--and failed to understand.
                Then fell upon their stomachs flat,
                This prodigy to marvel at.




                           TREASON AND PLOT


                When I am very, very rich,
                  And very famous, too,
                I’ll take a cab to Regent’s Park,
                  And walk into the Zoo
                With quite a consequential air,
                For I shall be the richest there.

                And in a lordly way I’ll take
                  A shilling from my purse,
                And buy the biggest rattle-snake
                  To carry home to Nurse,
                And, as she’s very short of breath,
                Perhaps ’twill frighten her to death.




                        THE POPPY AND THE POET


                Like poppies in the golden corn,
                  The poet’s race is run;
                Each strives alike to gain the ear;
                  The poppy from the sun
                Borrows more radiance than gold--
                A poet’s much the same, I’m told.

                But still these differences appear
                  When everything is said;
                The poet’s leaves, I greatly fear,
                  Are very seldom read.
                Poppies but borrow from the sun--
                A poet will from anyone.




                              EL DORADO


                He sought it through the golden isles
                Of Once Upon a Time.
                In fabled fields of Might Have Been
                He heard its distant chime.
                He saw, mid Dreamland’s mystic glades,
                Its turrets from afar;
                And found it in the valley, where
                The deepest shadows are.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOMBINE A FANTASY ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


